Albertas influenza-related death toll has more than tripled in the past three weeks, providing a deadly finale to what had appeared to be a relatively mild flu season. Alberta Health Services said Thursday it knows of 47 Albertans who have died this season after contracting the flu. Twenty-one of those deaths occurred in the Calgary region and 14 in the Edmonton region, AHS statistics show. The total is a significant jump from the start of March, when the province had recorded 15 deaths. However, the toll remains well off last years pace, when more than 90 deaths had been recorded by the third week of March. While the rising numbers might suggest flu activity is increasing around Alberta, deaths are generally a poor indicator of the bugs intensity, said Dr. Chris Sikora, medical officer of health for the Edmonton zone. Thats because death can occur weeks after a patient first contracts the virus and there is often a time lag to confirm what contributed to the death. Death is the worst possible outcome but it is also the last outcome and the accounting is always delayed, Sikora said. Other indicators suggest the province is now in the downslope of flu season, he said. Sikora said older, frail seniors and young children have been the groups most vulnerable to the flu, though this years dominant strain, H1N1, has also been known to hit hard at young and middle-age adults. Sikora said he didnt have an age breakdown of this seasons deaths. Preliminary results suggest the flu vaccine is 60- to 70-per-cent effective against this years H1N1 mutation. More than 1.12 million doses of the shot have been administered this season in Alberta, about 110,000 less than last year. AHS didnt have precise figures, but it is believed only a small fraction of those who died had been immunized against the flu this year. The health authority said hospitalizations due to flu now stands at 1,209 for the season, a 50-per-cent increase since the start of the month. Flu statistics2015-16 Lab-confirmed cases of flu:  Alberta total: 4,287  Edmonton zone: 1,357  Calgary zone: 1,363  Deaths:  Alberta total: 47  Edmonton zone: 14  Calgary zone: 21  Hospitalizations: Alberta total: 1,209 Edmonton zone: 481 Calgary zone: 398 