In my psychiatric practice, I treat patients with psychotic illnesses including schizophrenia. Most were born with a genetic vulnerability to develop the disorder, but many share another important life experience: they smoked pot from an early age. Debate has raged across Canada about the impending legalization/decriminalization of marijuana. Canadian physicians, in their role as advocates for physical and mental health, have been conspicuously absent from the debate. This troubling void in leadership is apparent from the lack of informed discourse exhibited across all forms of media. Our failure to educate Canadians regarding the potential risks of street pot, particularly for a developing brain, has important social, physical and psychological implications. Teens and their parents have been exposed to a steady stream of pseudo-scientific nonsense about street pot: its safer for kids than alcohol, it improves driver safety, it cures cancer, it will usher in world peace. Due to its accessibility and social acceptability, many Canadians have come to believe pot is a benign herb. Teens are the principal market for street pot, so theres a strong financial incentive for pot-sellers to vehemently argue its a safe, even healthy, personal choice. Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) produces marijuanas high, but its not your parents pot anymore. Over the last several decades, street pot has been selectively bred to increase THC potency from one-to-fourper centto up to 40per cent. The THC extract Shatter (A.K.A. the heroin of marijuana) is a butane bi-product of cannabis yielding THC levels up to 80per cent. The heightened potency of THC in street pot has been inversely mirrored by the reduction/elimination of cannabidiol, the purported antipsychotic, anticonvulsant, neuroprotective component of cannabis. Heightening THC potency and eliminating cannabidiol has made street pot more impairing, more addictive and more dangerous for a developing brain. It is important to differentiate street pot from medicinal marijuana, which has a balance of THC and cannabidiol. While there is insufficient evidence for most physicians to feel comfortable prescribing medicinal marijuana, there are situations where patients have benefitted from its use, for instance the treatment of intractable childhood seizures, multiple sclerosis and severe and treatment-resistant pain. I am concerned about the number of patients that have become chronic pot smokers to get to sleep or to manage anxiety without an adequate trial of treatments that have actual evidence for their efficacy. Treatments with evidence are not limited to medications, but include sleep hygiene and talk-therapy. The choice to self-medicate with cannabis is a personal decision, but I think it speaks to the appalling state of mental health services in Canada that so many people feel they have no better options. Schizophrenia is often a debilitating, chronic brain illness associated with frightening psychotic symptoms, cognitive impairment and declining functioning in all realms of life. Psychotic symptoms, such as persecutory delusions and auditory hallucinations, usually present during the teens or early 20s, but are often preceded by prodromal, non-specific symptoms like depression, anxiety or social withdrawal, sometimes years before psychotic symptoms are apparent. Like all mental illnesses, the cause of schizophrenia is multifactorial. Many have a genetic vulnerability to develop the illness, but schizophrenia is believed to result from several hits to a developing brain, from genetics to environmental exposures, like infections and toxins, which may occur even before birth. Only a small percentage of pot smokers develop schizophrenia, but there is an abundance of high quality, well-replicated scientific evidence regarding the association between THC and psychotic disorders. Adolescence is a time of vital brain development, when brain cells (neurons) are pruned and critical connections are made. Most mental illnesses first present during the teen years. High THC levels, such as that found in street pot, alters brain structure, size and function, especially for frequent, heavy users. Neurons in brain areas that are rich in cannabinoid receptors can be damaged or destroyed by THC. There is replicated clinical research demonstrating an earlier onset of schizophrenia, by up to six years, in those who frequently use high potency pot before age 15. Timing is critical because greater emotional and social development before the onset of psychotic symptoms is associated with less illness-related functional impairment. If avoiding pot delays the onset of schizophrenia by several years, this has a tremendous impact on educational attainment, developing relationships, independence and engagement in treatment. While no substance, including THC, is solely responsible for schizophrenia, there are many large, long-term studies that lend credence to the concern that THC is a trigger for psychosis in vulnerable individuals. A 2014 study of more than 50,000Swedish men followed over 25 years concluded, Schizophreniapatients with a history ofcannabisuse had a significantly higher burden of lifetime in-patient care than non-cannabis users. Not only doescannabisincrease the risk ofschizophrenia, but also our findings indicate that the course and prognosis ofschizophreniamay be more severe thanschizophreniacases in general. Ongoing symptoms or repeated acute episodes of psychosis can worsen the schizophrenia-related brain injury and functional decline. The use of high-potency THC after diagnosis has been associated with a higher relapse rate. Even if schizophrenia were inevitable, there is compelling evidence for the benefits of remaining well for as long as possible and avoiding pot after a diagnosis is established. Some brains are more vulnerable than others and we have a limited ability to estimate risk. Adults can make an informed decision about whether to use pot. When guiding our children, however, we must consider what they stand to lose. As a psychiatrist, the research evidence is convincing, and so too is my clinical experience. I have witnessed the devastating impact of schizophrenia on patients and their families. Avoiding pot during the teen years might reduce or even eliminate the risk of psychosis. As physicians, we need to step up and lead the scientific debate. I support the legalization of marijuana. We need to tax it to help pay for the physical and mental illnesses it causes and regulate its availability. Most importantly, we need to educate Canadians about the potential consequences of high potency pot on a developing brain. Diane McIntosh is a clinical assistant professor in the department of psychiatry at theUniversity of B.C. 