Flu vaccine  it is not too late! People are dying from the flu! Now, this week! Do you get an annual flu vaccine? If yes, does that mean you will not get the flu? If you do not get a flu vaccine, why not? Lets review some common responses to these questionsand the truth based on evidence. There are several varieties of fluvaccineavailable. A lot of research in recent years is responsible. Remember within the last 10 years when there was a shortage? Not everyone could even get the vaccine. Then, in 2009, a new strain calledH1N1, or swine flu emerged making many people very sick. Since all of that, these new options protect against H1N1. They cover more specific strains expected to be active this year. Some are now safe for people with egg allergies. Some are specific for people over age 65. When you get the vaccine, it is NOT LIVE VIRUS that is injected. It is virus that has been grown then killed before injection. Most are placed, via needle, in your upper arm muscle just below your shoulder (deltoid muscle). The injected substance then prompts your immune system to develop antibodies to the virus. Antibodies are the parts of your immune system that fight infections. The antibodies will be specific to the strains of virus in the vaccine. Some flu vaccines cover three strains of flu while others cover four. The strains selected for the vaccine are the most dangerous. There are other milder strains of the flu not covered by the vaccine. So, you can still get the flu, but not the mostdeadly types. The type of flu vaccine that is specific for peopleover age 65is a bit stronger. In our 60s and beyond our immune system often isnt quite as active. So, the stronger vaccine will provide better protection. There is also a live version of the flu strains that is given in thenose. This is an option for people who really, really hate needles. Note, people with cancer, compromised immune systems, and some other conditions cannot receive the live version. Please check with your doctor or person providing immunizations. Who should NOT get the flu vaccine? There are very few people in this category. For people withegg allergies, there is now a type of flu vaccine that does not contain egg. If you had asevereallergic reaction to a flu vaccine in the past, be sure to talk with your doctor before deciding whether to get one. With several varieties of vaccine available, there might be a version that does not contain the substance to which you are allergic. If you have or have had Guillain-Barre Syndrome, talk with your doctor. There is not currently a vaccine approved for children under 6 months of age. Otherwise, you should be seeking your flu vaccine! The people who are DYING from the flu usually get the flu then get pneumonia while they are sick. Flu deaths tend to occur most often later in the flu season (so now!). Those who die are usually over age 75 or they have other medical conditions involved. Then there are those who no one would have expected. Dont let the flu catch you by surprise. It isNOT TOO LATEto get your flu vaccine! For more information about flu vaccines, contact us atwww.medsmash.com. BIBLICAL APPLICATION Flu vaccines can protect our physical health. What protects our spiritual health? The armor of God is the first thing that comes to my mind. Ephesians 6:10-18 ESV Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might.Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil.For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm.Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace.In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one;and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. And all through the Psalms you will find cries for protection and rejoicing for the protection offered! Psalm 5:11 CEV Let all who run to you for protection always sing joyful songs. Provide shelter for those who truly love you and let them rejoice. Psalm 34:8 CEV Discover for yourself that the LORD is kind. Come to him for protection, and you will be glad. Psalm 118:8 CEV It is better to trust the LORD for protection than to trust anyone else, I feel so assured when I read these verses! These are good ones to memorize or carry in your wallet for reference at frightening times. Blessings, Michelle Image source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 