The National Shipbuilding Strategy (NSS) continues to surface in the media on a fairly regular basis. Unfortunately, the reports or commentaries often question the merits or progress on NSS. These negative reports often different or better ways of executing NSS  suggesting the involvement of additional shipyards, and in most cases Chantier Davie in Levis, Que. These questions and suggestions often come from individuals with minimal experience or expertise in shipbuilding, and even less comprehension of the principles, objectives and specifics of NSS. These assertions are as preposterous as they are reckless. NSS will deliver the vessels the Canadian Coast Guard and Royal Canadian Navy need to protect the security and serve the interests of Canadians. The program has been thoughtfully designed to do so in a way that avoids boom and bust cycles in the Canadian shipbuilding industry. Altering that course would undermine the long-term viability of Canadas shipbuilding sector. Further, Canada has neither the fiscal ability nor workforce capacity to move any faster than NSS is projected to. I want to address a recurring, but incorrect, comment that Chantier Davie was left out of NSS. Davie was not left out of NSS  it competed for NSS, just like Seaspan and Irving did. Davie was unsuccessful, perhaps because it was in financial difficulty at the time of the NSS competition, one of the many times in the last 20 years when it faced an insolvency. Despite this and their ongoing financial struggles, in November, 2015, Davie was handed a sole-sourced $700-million contract by the Government of Canada to construct an interim Auxiliary Oiler Replenishment (AOR) capability for the Navy. Given the projects that Davie has started and not completed, how can we be sure that the Crown is getting the best value for money on AOR? Also, has anyone bothered to ask how this project is progressing against scope, timeline and budget? More recently, Davie has been actively and aggressively pursuing additional shipbuilding work from the Government of Canada. The work Davie is pursuing has already been the subject of a rigorous, fair and open competition in which the West Coast-based Seaspan and East Coast-based Irving were successful under NSS. Both of these shipyards, Seaspan and Irving, have invested hundreds of millions of dollars to completely modernize their shipyards for NSS, have already created hundreds of new jobs, and are well underway in building new vessels that will serve the Canadian Coast Guard and Royal Canadian Navy for the next 30 years. Canadas long-term economic security/prosperity is in the Pacific Rim. Vancouver, the gateway to the Pacific, mustmaintain vital marine infrastructure such as dry-docks, shipbuilding and repair facilities just like the other successful export super city states  Singapore, Hong Kong and Houston. If Canada signs the TPP, its the Port of Vancouver that our exports will flow though. Despite these facts, Davie continues to claim it can either build or refit ships better, faster and cheaper than both Seaspan and Irving. This is an interesting and unsubstantiated claim from a shipyard that has only built one ship in the last 20 years  a project that was many years late and massively over-budget. In fact, Davies most recent project to build two ferries for the Socit des traversiers du Qubec for delivery in 2013 has yet to be completed and again is running way over-budget. In addition to the multiple bankruptcies and a lack of evidence of the ability to deliver on projects, Davie, which is owned by a Monaco-based investment fund, is currently facing legal actions from four different Canadian suppliers. Remind me again why Canada is being underserved on NSS by not having Chantier Davie involved? Jan Noster is president of the Construction Maintenance and Allied Workers Union. 