Its been rather busy lately. Blame it on being, ahem, down with the sickness (the kids say that on the street, right? or is it a song by Disturbed?) and believe me, getting even the slightest bit sick is a spanner in the relentless escapement driving my institutionalisation. You see, I undergo flight training and safety is a bigger issue than forcing a fake Disney pirate to tell the world Australia can be as douchy with border security as Los Angeles International Airport. Part of the protocol I have to endure deals with acceptable ailments and medications, of which any kind of disease is grounds to be, uh, grounded. As for meds, theres a list of stuff you can take and others youll get arrested for if someone with a little machine finds it in you. I could go more into the exact bloody documentation for it but frankly, you cant be that interested. Its laws and regulations, and me talking about laws and regulations only results in trouble, anarchy and mindless ramblings far more unintriguing than the ones that already exist on Matters of Opinion. So, begone ye papers that define thy rules! Ill see you guys when the next exams roll around. Call it being overcautious, but there is a lot of reason to make me not fly if I have a cold or a bout of the influenza. I trust that you reader have experienced this common yet sometimes debilitating reminder that Mother Nature gives no fucks about how you feel. Seriously, look at the graveyards. The forces that be couldnt care less about our livelihoods. I could be super positive and make some comment on the possibility of the mental interconnectedness that quantum physics has yet to explain, partly because quantum physics ignores the supposed pseudo phenomena. Back to the flu though. All that mucus, all that snot that creeps out your nostrils and dribbles down your throat only to be coughed out into the shower drain is the bodys attempts at rectifying a viral infection. Im not a biology expert but its this method of fixing the problem that creates the rubbish symptoms we experience in our sinuses, clogging them and screwing with our hearing. The sinus issue becomes particularly important with the flying I do. See, I fly around in Piper Warriors and unless Boeing has been secretly sticking turbofans in them and sending them to 45,000ft in the air, these relatively little aircraft arent pressurised. Have you ever been on a commercial flight with the flu or a cold? Its not pleasant at all, amplified by the generally taxing closed-in environment and the several-odd passengers and a screaming child surrounding you. Even though the cabin gets pressurised, its not feasible to maintain the same air pressure as on the Earths surface. Your ears begin to hurt. Hearing becomes a little strange. Are you in a fish tank? Whats that tinny sound over the intercom? Why does my in-flight movies audio sound like Radioheads Thom Yorke shoved through twenty vocoders? Worse thing is, trying to clear your ears is harder and in some instances a great way to make your situation much less comfortable. It doesnt matter if youre the yawning kind or the person who actually knows that the Valsalva method is called the Valsalva method, equalising the pressure in your sinuses to match the environment of the metal tube youre in is no picnic. So think about being in a general aviation craft. The pressures going to get lower for sure, and the pains going to be a real bitch. Oh, and you can also blow out your eardrums. Im no stranger to the dangers of entering different pressure environments with jammed ears. Back in the days where watching the everyday horrors of Port Moresby was starting to bore me, I went underwater with a tank of air and a PADI Dive Certificate to my name. More than once Id scuba dive with the sniffles and end up relieved to be treading on the surface to escape the excruciating pain in my ears. That pain is very distracting. Distractions in flying are really bad. Therefore, dont send someone up with a sickness, especially Ebola uh, is that old already? Ill run with Zika virus for now. However, not all of you take aircraft for a spin. Maybe you sell flowers. Maybe you play in a band. Maybe you file reports from a cubicle. Maybe youre a professor in Mayan culture. Maybe its Maybelline. Regardless, sickness affects us more often than wed like and unfortunately, work or study demands we keep a schedule and can only bend so far. Some can stand trying to stick to the plan whilst blowing their noses til the nostrils dry out to Atacama Desert levels. I traditionally used to just power through any ailment, particularly headaches which have been more common than Id like in recent months. There comes a point when ignoring the pain fails. It throws you off. The train starts to wobble as derailment approaches. I can still operate with the flu, but only at half-speed with study  if Im lucky. Its really more like a three-fold increase in time to complete a task. In my days as a boarding student, it was unbelievably hard to charge ahead with even puny little 1,000-word assignments as my brain suggested that I should take a rest, to which I would reply, But I have to get this shit done by Friday goddammit! The fact is that we cant predict when we will accidentally inhale a stray germ or walk barefoot into jigger-infested soil (and for the love of sanity, do not Google pictures of people affected by jiggers; theyre nasty buggers whose damage is far too horrendous for me to talk about). Most of us all have some kind of commitment  a job, a course, a hobby, etc.  that insists on holding a schedule which works best if planned months in advance and followed to the letter. Along comes Virus McVirusface and wham, youre below operating capacity and will end up issuing the wrong cover pages on all your reports. Someone has to pick up the slack and things go awry. Dont tell me I dont know anything about that. As a result of being down with two instances of the flu (though I suspect it was a short-lived cold first, then a shitty flu a few days later) Ive been thrown far back in my flying schedule and have ended up near the back of the pack. It annoys me that this is where I am but regardless of all the countermeasures, all the hand sanitiser, all the regular cleaning of my room, how could I know that Id wake up on a Thursday morning with a sudden and horrific coughing fit that didnt calm down for four hours? I, like the rest of the business-oriented world, like things to go smoothly as per a timetable that some computer created based on peoples personalities and favourite ice cream flavours. Sickness rolls in and says, Try keep up with things with this little grievance Ive got for you. Chaos ensues. I dont like getting sick. I dont like being behind the ball. I also dont like Nickelback but thats not really a surprise and has nothing to do with these ramblings. Now, have a guess why Ive been away from WordPress for a few weeks. The flu accounts for the first half of the break. The second half is just getting business sorted out at flight school. Also, Ive been contemplating life. I do it a lot. Life still sucks. No dancing around that. Being sick certainly doesnt help improve that statement. PS: Id like to at least congratulate the designers of the upcoming new $5 note in Australia for celebrating the unwanted habit of getting ill by featuring infectious diseases, probably E. coli, on the banknote. Or maybe its Nandos corn-on-the-cob. 