 Rhinovirus Belowis a 3D rendering of a Human Rhinovirus (C-15) , one of the ~100 rhinovirus types whichoccur worldwide. These viruses are responsible for what is commonly referred to as the common cold. The symptoms are wide and cover a variety of systems from sore throat, runny nose, and nasal congestion, to sneezing and coughing. These are the most common symptoms, but in some the virus can manifest additional symptoms: muscle aches, fatigue, malaise, headache, muscle weakness, or loss of appetite. This is typically not an issue for most people, but the young, elderly, and immunocompromised individuals should take care and see their physician when needed. The plus is that fever and extreme fatigue are not typically present, being a more common occurrence in Influenza infections.In essence, thank this little guy for all those Pharmaceutical commercials.  The rhinovirus is spread by two modes of transmission. You can become infected if you 1)come incontact withaerosols ofrespiratory droplets from an infected person or2) through contact with contaminated surfaces (This includes direct person-to-person contact). To prevent transmission, people should cover their mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing, and wash their hands regularly. It is good practice to use your elbow to cover your mouth when coughing or sneezing, so as to avoid contaminating your hands. The cold season typically starts around September and ends in April! Influenza What is interesting about the rhinovirus, and problematic for virologists, is the fact that there are so many types of these viruses. Add that macro variety, on top of continuous genetic mutations within each, and you have a everchanging group of entities. This is why we do not have a cold shot vaccine like we do for the flu. The flu,or influenza, has only 3 main types: A, B, and C. Talk about something thats a lot easier to control. Influenza Type A and B are the main ones responsible forthe annual influenza epidemics. Theseepidemics can seriously affect all populations and occur globally. The highest risk of complications occur among children younger than 2 years,andadults older than65 years. Pregnant women and people of any age with certain medical conditions (such as chronic heart, lung, kidney, liver, blood or metabolic diseases (i.e. diabetes), or weakened immune systems) are also at a high risk for infection. These viruses cause up to ~17-30% of the population to exhibit those sniffling, aching, coughing, and fever symptoms, statistically shown as an estimated attack rate of 5%10% in adults and 20%30% in children. As far as Type C, it also causes flu; however, type C flu symptoms are much less severe and occur much less frequently which is whythis type is not tested for in clinical laboratories (at least not in any I have worked in as due to its lack of severity this would constitute a waste of resources) or vaccinated for. Influenza ranks in the top 10causes of death in the U.S., and causes more death then chronic liver disease, cirrhosis, and septicemia. The CDClinks it to between 3,000-4,000deaths and 200,000 hospitalizations each year. The World Health Organization (WHO) reports annualworldwide mortality ratesbetween250 000 to 500 000, with3 to 5 million estimated cases.The seasonal flu vaccine was created to try to avert these epidemics. CDC Weekly fluview report, accessed 03/29/2016 CDC mortality report, 2013. Deaths = 3,697 Each influenza type has different characteristics. Type A flu, or the influenza A viruses, are capable of infecting animals as well as humans,though infection in humans is morecommon. Wild birds commonly act as hosts for this flu type. Type B flu viruses are only found in humans andmay cause a less severe reaction than type A flu virus. Occasionally, type B flu can still harmful. Influenza type B viruses are not classified by sub-type and do not cause pandemics. Below are two videos which explore the influenza virus in more detail; one an NPR video illustrating the flu virus infecting a human cell, and the second walking through the anatomy of the virus itself.     How many viruses are there? Estimating the diversity of life is a persistent challenge in the field of biology. At sucha micro scale scientistsare unable todifferentiate viruses, or even bacteria,based on morphology alone. Theymust rely on novel methods, and advances in technology, to view and categorize them appropriately. Microbiologists have even indicated,using phylogeny basedgene sequencing, that multiple species would thrive in environments once thought impossible. This negates some important variables, but the indication holdsmuch potential for bacterial and viral discovery. With that said, how many different viruses are there? To get an exact value is hard, but Dr.Stephen Morseof Columbia University School of Health suggested that there were about one million viruses of vertebrates. This estimate was arrived at by assuming~20 different viruses for each of the 50,000+ vertebrates on Earth. This was before pathogen discovery expertsIan Lipkin and Joe DeRisi,out of Weill Medical College at Cornell, released theresults of a new study, suggesting that at least 320,000 different viruses infect mammals (58 viruses for each species). The authors state that this is likely to be anunderestimate as only 9 viral families were targeted by the study and the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approach used could only detects viruses similar to those that we already know. Using these new numbers though we can perhaps have an idea of Earths potential virus diversity. First let us establish that thereare 5,416 different mammal species in the world, and a total of 66,178 vertebrate species according to theInternational Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Since mammals only make up around 8% of total vertebrates we can see that using Lipkins estimates for vertebrate species aloneallows for a largezoonotic pool. If we assume the quoted figure of 320,000 viruses for 5,400 species, in a pool of 66,000 species, the total estimated virus load would obviouslyfar exceed Dr. Morse calculationat 1.73 billion. Even with other variables considered it is still quite plausible to haveone million species with that large of a number. According to the Catalogue of Life and the World Register of Marine Speciesthere are 1.2 million species officially registered as being present and accounted for on planet Earth. These hold there place in the taxonomic classification system started 253 years ago by Carl Linnaeus. This is a large number, but every scientist knows we are far from discovering every species out there. I meanresearchers report more than 15,000 new species annually. A good example of this is seen in anew calculationpublished in PLoS Biology by the Census of Marine Life scientists. It is based on a statistical study of thetaxonomic classification system currently known and derives its data extrapolating from patterns initsbranches. These patterns are found in thehigher levels of taxonomic divisions, like order and phylum, and the number of species within each. The numerical value calculated for the potential eukaryotic species was at the 8.74 million mark, give or take 1.3 million. A huge difference which really sums up the potential underlying biodiversity surrounding us.You may see, in looking at some of this data, that biodiversity looks like it increases the smaller something gets. Thats what I saw, and accordingly, in 1988 at the University of Oxford an evolutionary biologist named Robert May observed this as well. His work focused on the calculation ofthe diversity of smaller animals and concerned land animals, but the correlation between diversity and size is one I hypothesize will hold going forward. So,let us use thelow ball number of viruses foran individual species, as was usedby Dr. Morse,and apply it across the low ball number of eukaryotic species we currently know exist.If there are 20 different viruses for each speciesand there are 1.2 million eukaryotic species they could infect (this is still leaving out viruses which infect bacteria) then that means there is at least24 million virusesjust floating around.If we extend this analysis using the 58 viruses per species model, that number jumps to 69.9 million.Considering that there are 1031 virus particles in the oceans (mostly bacteriophage species) the true number is likely to be substantially higher. Having azoonotic pool this large, a growing lack of biodiversity in larger animals, and a considerably smaller globedue to ease of travel creates a melting pot of opportunity for viral species. Genetic mutation is a viruses favorite pastime. They are all justwaiting for their chance to mutate, infect us, and eat our brains!This is why the field of pathogen discovery has grown so much in the last decade.It truly is a Virus World. Herpes Simplex Virus-1 A-Capsid  Resources & References: Articles & Sites  Influenza  CDCs Influenza database of flu facts as well as additional flu related resources. There are links to the current fluview reports concerning current epidemiological data as well. The Big Picture Book of Viruses Comprehensive database of viruses including classifications and images Viruses  From Structure to Biology Sondra and Milton Schlesingers American Society for Virology (ASV) site containing historical accounts in the form of interview. The Foundations of Medical and Veterinary Virology: Discoverers and Discoveries, Inventors and Inventions, Developers and Technology Frederick A. Murphy (.doc and .ppt files) Frederick A. Murphys work for education. Similar material available at: At NCBI / UC-Davis- Downloadable Photographs, Graphics and Photoshop filesand Emerging Diseases and In Memoriam PowerPoint file Virolgy.net  all the virus information you need on the http://www. Holly A. Basta, Jean-Yves Sgro, Ann C. Palmenberg, Modeling of the human rhinovirus C capsid suggests a novel topography with insights on receptor preference and immunogenicity,Virology Volume 448, 5 January 2014, Pages 176-184. Morse, SS. 1993. Emerging viruses. Oxford University Press. Lipkin WI 2008.Pathogen Discovery. PLoS Pathog 4(4): e1000002. Racaniello, Vincent; The virology Blog, accessed 03/2016. ViPR, VirusPathogen Resource;Virus structure & Database, accessed 03/2016. Virus World, University of Wisconsin, accessed 03/2016. Encyclopedia of Virology Plus CD-ROM. Robert G. Webster and Allan Granoff Editors. 1995 Academic Press BioVisions at Harvard The BioVisions Department is a collaboration between video & graphic design students and the students in the Bio/Chemistry Departments. The videos they make are highly accurate and a great teaching aid!  Animations Links  MolecularMovies.org Art Olson movies of TBSV (1981) and poliovirus (1985)(Historical) New style studio animation from the Rossmans lab on Bacteriophage T4 Rossmans Lab moviesAll the T4 studio movies, rhinovirus, Rossman interview, Microviridae assembly. Harvard Medical School Molecular and Cellular DynamicsSimulated retrovirus entry Membrane proteins of Influenza virusThe 3 types of membrane proteins on Influenza are targets for drugs and the immune system.     Molecular Graphics Art  Art Olsons Molecular Graphics Laboratory at Scripps David GoodsellPaintings commissionned for the Virus WorldBiosites project gallery. Molecule of the Month The RCSB PDB Molecule of the Month by David S. Goodsell featured many virus capids and viral molecules over the years. 2009 featured Tobacco Mosaic Virus. 2000: HIV-1 Protease 2001: Poliovirus and Rhinovirus 2003: Simian Virus 40 2008: Dengue Virus 2009: Influenza Neuraminidase 2009: Tobacco Mosaic Virus Gorge W. Hart (Stony Book, NY)geometric sculpture and polyhedra.George W. Hart on Wikipedia. Luke JerramJerram by The ScientistShows images of amazing transparent glass virus sculptures.See the creation of a glass HIV virus (video): 30 ComputersSculptures, many in the shape of viruses (polyedra) made from 30 discarded PC computers. 3D Molecules Lasered into Glass  *The featured image is of four white blood cells under EM, colored for visual clarity.        