Last winter I had my annual flu jab. The only bad reaction I had was some mild flu-like symptoms for a couple of days. I was lucky. My wife had her annual flu shot recently and was struck down with the full-blown flu a week later. She suffered two weeks of misery. How I escaped the lurgy while living in the same house is anyones guess. I decided to research the subject of influenza vaccination. The first item I came across was the usual scare tactic. Apparently they have just had a bad flu season in 2015/2016 in the Northern Hemisphere, so pressure to get vaccinated is on again. Then this from an article by Peter Doshi, Ph.D. from the John Hopkins School of Medicine who issued a scathing report on the dangers of flu vaccinations in the British Medical Journal (BMJ) that completely demolishes the established scientific theory that flu vaccinations are safe and effective. The vaccine may be less beneficial and less safe than has been claimed, and the threat of influenza seems to be overstated, Doshi says. He points to an Australian study that found one in every 110 children under the age of five had convulsions following vaccinations in 2009 for H1N1 influenza. Additional investigations found that the H1N1 vaccine was also associated with a spike in cases of narcolepsy among adolescents. Another study found that the flu shot was only 9 per cent effective in protecting seniors against the 2012-2013 seasons most virulent influenza bug. Doshis concerns echo those of Dr. Russell Blaylock, a neurosurgeon and author of The Blaylock Wellness Report who has deep concerns over the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. For most people, says Dr. Blaylock, flu vaccinations dont prevent the flu but actually increase the odds of getting it. (This ties in with my wifes experience). The mercury contained in flu shots is such a strong immune depressant that a flu shot suppresses immunity for several weeks. This makes people highly susceptible to catching the flu, he says. They may even think the vaccine gave them the flu, but thats not true  it depressed their immune system and then they caught the flu. I wont be having a flu shot this year or any year soon. 