In recent years, about 33,500 immigrants have settled in greater Vancouver annually. Assuming an average of three per family, the needs of these immigrants for housing has resulted in a demand of 11,166 units a year, 931 a month or about 214 every week. This demand for housing is the direct result of the mass immigration permitted under federal law. Speculative investment in housing by foreigners adds an unknown but likely very much smaller partto this demand. Virtually no demand has been coming from Vancouver residents as a result of births exceeding deaths and net migration from the rest of Canada. It does not take a PhD in economics to understand that the demand for housing created by the immigrants and foreign speculators leads to higher prices. In the case of most goods price increases are restrained by the response of suppliers who can buy inputs at constant costs. This is not the case for the supply of housing. Land needed for building is in limited supply because Vancouver is hemmed inby mountains, the ocean and the U.S. border. That supply is reduced further by laws reservinga large proportion of available land foragricultural use. Increased demand for this limited supply of land leads to increases in its cost, and the cost of housing. The other reason for the high prices of housing is that the efficient use of available land is prevented by rulesrestricting the height of buildings and regulations concerning safety, amenities, congestion and pollution. These rulesexist because the residents of Vancouver want them. In acting to prevent future increases in house prices, nothing can be done to eliminate the natural scarcity of land. This leaves only two alternatives. One is the relaxation of restrictive building rules, which requires the action of local politicians. There are no indications that the public wants their politicians to relax these rules. The other alternative is curtailing mass immigration, which is the responsibility of the federal government. Such curtailment will not take place since federal politicians are pressured to maintain present policies by the many beneficiaries of mass immigration:the construction industry, real estate agents, employers hiring immigrants to keep labour costs low and increase profits, retailers benefiting from increased sales, the owners of land and homes whose capital gains depend on high demand by immigrants, the members of the immigration industry (lawyers, consultants, providers of adjustment assistance, teachers of English as a second language and others who are paid by government to serve immigrants), members of immigrant communities wanting to increase their economic and political influence, and immigrants who want to have their parents and grand-parents join them. There are also Canadians who enjoy more abstractbenefits from mass immigration: socially conscious people who want to do good and get satisfaction from seeing immigrants escape poverty in their home countries, andmakingCanada a globally admired multicultural society. Politicians whose re-election chances are increased by catering to these do-gooders and who, ironically, gain status and self-esteem by designing and financing at taxpayers expense policies for the assistance of those suffering from the high costs of housing. Because of the politics surrounding building rulesand immigration policies, Vancouvers young will continue to suffer from the high and increasing costs of housing. Many will leave Vancouver. Some will live in the basement of their parents home or share accommodations with others, postponing and often forgoing marriage and having children. However, eventually the silent majority of Vancouverites who do not benefit from mass immigration may vote for changes in federal policies. This will happen once this silent majority becomes aware of the negative effects on their own well being caused by mass immigration: fiscal deficits resulting in higher taxes; lower wages and incomes per person; traffic congestion, pollution, scarcity of family physicians, hospital beds and university places and diminishing returns from multiculturalism. Herbert Grubel is aprofessor of economics (emeritus) atSimon Fraser University. 