Dont let the trend toward warmer temperatures fool you flu season is far from over, says a top administrator with the Windsor-Essex County Health Unit. The number of confirmed cases of influenza for this season more than doubled over the course of two weeks earlier this month, said associate medical officer of health Dr. Wajid Ahmed. At this point, we are seeing a surge, he said. There had been only 27 confirmed cases for the season from early November until mid-February. But three weeks later, by early March, the number of cases across Windsor and Essex County jumped to 69. Thats more than twice the number of cases in a very short period, Ahmed said. Thats been the trend happening across the province, as well. A flu outbreak has been seen in a few long-term care homes for senior citizens. We always try to remind people spread of the influenza virus depends a lot on human behaviour, he said, adding that people should be washing their hands regularly and coughing into their elbows. Symptoms of the latest flu outbreak include mild fever, cough and runny nose. The elderly, children and those with chronic or multiple health complications are stillsusceptible to the flu virus this season which typically will last until the end of April or early May. The health unit has not noted any outbreaks in local schools, he said. The flu vaccine should still be capable of fighting the virus for up to a year  provided it matches the strain, Ahmed said. The bad thing with the flu virus is how it tends to evolve from one year to the next, he said. That is why we tell people to get the vaccine each year. Despite the recent spike, the number of influenza cases this year ismuch lower than during the 2014-15 flu season when there were 290 confirmed cases of flu in the area. This years flu vaccine appears to have been a good match to combat the current flu strain and helped keep numbers down, he said. Its good to remind people the virus is still out there (this time of year), Ahmed said. If you did not get the flu shot, its never too late. dbattagello@postmedia.com 