Back in 2013, the majority of people in the United States and Canada believed that stopping the Keystone XL pipeline was impossible. Politicians and pundits conceded that the climate movement had thrown a few wrenches in TransCanadas plans, but the fate of Keystone was still projected as an inevitable yes. There were many moments where we could have conceded to that thinking, but instead of putting faith in the winds of Washington and Ottawa politics, we put our faith in people power. We made an ambitious plan to gather what we hoped would be, at the time, the largest climate demonstration in US history. In February 2013, just after Barack Obama was inaugurated for his second term, the two of us stood together on a stage looking out over 50,000 people gathered in the Washington Mall demanding the permits for the Keystone XL pipeline be rejected. That was but one of hundreds of moments that sealed the fate of the Keystone pipeline, and one of thousands that have seen the climate movement around the world grow in size and power year after year. From marching with over 400,000 people in New York City at the Peoples Climate March, to joining Indigenous peoples in Alberta for the Tar Sands Healing Walk, weve seen how this movement has grown bigger, dug deeper and become bolder than we could have ever imagined. The climate justice movement stopped Keystone XL, but the fossil fuel industry is relentless, pushing pipelines in every direction. When a new government was elected in Canada last October, many of us on both sides of the border hoped for an end to the incessantpush to expand dangerous oilsands extraction. We heard Prime Minister Trudeau in Paris when he told the world that Canada was back on climate, and heard it again when he signed the Paris Agreement last month in New York City. We were cautiously optimistic that his promise to implement the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples would mean respect for free, prior and informed consent for communities in Alberta and along every pipeline route. But, as the months have started to stack up, Prime Minister Trudeaus actions seem to be falling short of his bold words. Climate leadership is about more than just saying the right thing. Its about doing whats necessary. For Prime Minister Trudeau, keeping his promises to take real climate action and respect Indigenous rights can only mean one thing  he has to stand up to the fossil fuel industry, starting with the Kinder Morgan tar sandspipeline. If big oil gets its way, the Kinder Morgan pipeline could be approved by the end of 2016. Bigger than the Keystone XL proposal, this wouldnt just be a climate disaster. It would put communities and waterways from Alberta to the Pacific at risk. Thats why this May hundreds of people in Vancouver are going to be joining a global wave of actions to Break Free from fossil fuels. Were demanding that political leaders like Prime Minister Trudeau live up to the promise of the Paris Agreement, keep fossil fuels in the ground and commit to a 100-per-cent renewable energy economy. There is still time for Canada to become a leader when it comes to climate change, but its going to take more than words from the Prime Minister. There is simply no way for Canada to build more tar sands pipelines and meet its global obligations on climate, let alone lead the world on the path toward 100per centrenewables. But we wont get there by just asking; well get there by acting and continuing to grow this movement. We stopped the Keystone pipeline, we can stop the Kinder Morgan pipeline. Bill McKibbenis an author and thefounder of350.org, an environmental organization that advocatesaction againsthuman-driven climate change. Melina Laboucan-Massimo is an activist and member of the Lubicon Cree First Nation in Alberta. 