Brace yourself folks  the flu season has arrived, which can bring the dreaded running nose, scratchy throat, cough, body aches, a high fever and thumping headache of the seasonal flu. The good news is you can easily help protect yourself and your loved ones by getting the flu vaccine. Talking from personal experience you dont want to get the flu? You feel absolutely dreadful, everything hurts and your bed becomes your best friend. If there was a $100 note lying on the floor, chances are you couldnt reach down to get it  thats how bad you feel! So why would you put yourself or your family through this, when a vaccine is available? Getting a flu vaccine only takes a couple of minutes out of your day. Getting the flu however, can mean time off work, not to mention missed events and opportunities. As you know Im passionate about patient safety. As health professionals, we have a responsibility to provide a safe environment for the people who come under our care. When you get a flu vaccine, you are not only protecting yourself from the flu, but you are also protecting the people around you who are more vulnerable to serious flu illness. This includes older people, young children, pregnant women, and people with certain medical conditions who are at a higher risk of developing serious complications from the flu, such as pneumonia. While staff vaccination numbers have increased over the past year, there are still some people who are more resistant to having the vaccine than others (no pun intended). To those people, I ask you to think about your responsibility to your patients. If you were a patient would you want to be treated by someone who has the potential to infect you or would you want to be treated by someone who is doing all they can to keep you and themselves safe? In other words, having the flu vaccine is part of the granny test. Ive had two types of flu. Ive had man flu and the proper flu and boy do I know the difference. Thats why every year I get a flu shot to protect myself and those around me. As for the myths out there, there are plenty. Be assured the flu vaccine wont give you the flu, it doesnt hurt (only a tiny sting) and it wont make your arm drop off. For more flu myth-busting facts click here If you have time, check out community clinic nurse Sam Phohes personal flu survival story. It was her job to promote the flu vaccine to her patients but as she lay in a coma it became clear she forgot to get one herself.  Ive had my flu shot  have you? Geraint You can now follow the CEO blog onTwitter.  