This essay was written during the time where immigrants were many and the flu was on a rise. It showed the human instinct to hide in fear of stigma. It wasfilled with various visual detailed that show the emotions of the unfortunate immigrants, doctors, and the cops. Brox showed what human instinct was and will always be. Blaming scapegoat and the scapegoat dying in order to escape the stigma.  Brox gives a detailed explanation of the setting, so well that I could imagine myself there! She showed the way people lived during normal times and explained the diversity tin Lawrence and describes how they make their living. There is a detailed explanation of how the flu started, using comparison to examples that have universal resignation. The flu was not a cough or just a sneeze but there was blood, this statement triggers a nerve because we see blood as a sign of harm.    Hemen Aklilu The intention was to describe the effects of the flu by focusing on a small farming community and describing in detail how the flue effected them. Brox writes very descriptively in order for the reader to better understand what it was like to live through it. The reader also learns about the lasting effects of the flu on the community and on the world.  In forty-five different languages and dialects they called for water and warmth. I really like this quote because it shows the many countries the immigrants were from. It shows that even though the immigrants were very different, they were united in their sickness. It shows that their differences didnt matter when they had something major in common. The author has ethos because she uses historical facts. At the end, the reader also learns that her fathers family was affected by the flu and one of his family members died. The reader trusts Brox and her telling of the history because Brox uses historical facts and she has a personal connection to the town. Brox uses arrangement to construct her essay as a narrative. Brox tells the story of how the flu affected the small farming community by arranging it like a story. She starts out by establishing the setting. She then describes how the flu got people sick and how the doctors tried to help. She then talked about the hospital and then how her own family was affected. The narrative arrangement helps the reader connect more the story of people dying from the flu. Students have often heard of the flu and how it killed so many people, so Broxs narrative and personal story makes the affects of the flu more real to the reader.  Emily Kuderer 