As a young child, I got sick as much as anyone else, and then from middle school through university and a bit beyond, I didnt get sick at all Then of course I moved to Korea to work at a Kindergarten and I got sick about five times in three months, but thats a different story. On Sunday morning, while I was out enjoying some shrines in Dazaifu, then I came down with 1) a really bad headache/sinuses-ache, 2) a really bad backache (the backpack with a computer and camera lenses among other things didnt help), and 3) the chills. I wanted to get home as soon as possible, so I finally did and by the time I got home, I knew it wasnt just hay fever or allergies, I at that point realized I was more than a little sick. My fever was 39.5C (103F), so I thought if I rested the rest of Sunday and Monday (which I had off), Id be good enough to work on Tuesday (retroactive haha). I rested all right, but thats all I did, just lay there really, it turns out that I cant sleep when Im sick, which makes no sense, but thats how my body works I guess. By 3 pm on Monday, I realized I wasnt getting better, especially not before work the next day, so I decided to go to the hospital.  Taking inhaled medicine for the flu this week. Not a fan of hospitals, not for normal reasons like fearing needles or hating to pay all that money just because you got unlucky in life (although those are certainly not pros), but more I just hate the time chunk that is bitten out of my life, for me time is one of my most important resources, so it drives me crazy to have to spend time getting to the hospital/clinic, then waiting, then filling out forms, then waiting, then finally the attention you need, then waiting, then results, then waiting, then paying. Although, I will say I hate having to fill out forms all the time too, especially when you have to fill out forms in a language of which you are not a native (I live in Japan and while I can read Japanese pretty well, my writing skills could be considered terrible at best). Anyway, after all of the waiting and the doctor shoving a weird swab instrument up my right nostril to collect a sample of my mucus, I was diagnosed with Influenza: Type B and that the soonest I could return to work was Friday (which was the day after my last day of work for my kindergartens school year), so on top of being miserably sick, I also now have to miss being able to say good-bye to some students and almost half of my co-workers, and in the least, wont get any kind of closure for my year spent with my class. This was a really fun year and I bonded with my class of 25 kids more than I thought I would and it just pains me now, knowing that I wont have anymore time with them all together as a group, Ill see all but two of them again next year, but I wont be there teachers anymore. The tree that my parents had planted on top of her. On top of feeling like crap physically from the flu, and feeling like crap emotionally due to missing my last week with my students, I woke up on Tuesday morning, with the news that my dog, Zelda had been put to sleep by my parents in her old age of 14 years old. It certainly was sad to hear, but I almost wished I could have been sadder. She was my best friend in in high school, but shes just not a part of my life anymore and it is hard to mourn something without reminders or a missing presence. She lived in America and I live in Japan, and in the past year, I had only seen her 3 days. It is hard (for me at least) to mourn something that isnt constant in my life somehow. But of course, it certainly made my terrible week, all the more worse, knowing I have one less reason to go back to America.  So Tuesday and Wednesday, I spent the entire day at home. Laying in bed, recovering, watching Netflixs Daredevil, programming, sleeping, studying a little, wishing I was at work. The problem was I had a lot of free time, of which I love, however between the headaches and the inability to go outside and do anything, I had so much time to barely do anything. I couldnt program too long without making my headache worse. The weather this week was amazing too, almost nothing by clouds and rain every week this year, I had been badly waiting for a sunny week all year, and it rears itself when Im stuck in bed. Im a natural optimist and rarely complain, but this week has kept pulling the punches on me, Im surprised I havent gotten depressed. My fever has been gone for two full days now, however, I still have light headedness, on and off again stomachaches, so I dont know if Im better yet or not. Last night, I biked out to Subway for dinner, which is only a 10 minute bike ride, but I felt dizzy and weak biking there and Im not sure if it means Im still sick or if became weak and I need to struggle to get better. The school week is over for my co-workers and it is now what would be my 10 day spring break, which extended to a 16 day spring break for me, which brings me to another irony of this week. Before I knew which day the break started,I was hoping itd be a few days before the 24th so that I could go to India for Holi, but my vacation didnt start until the 25th. However, now I technically was off of work on the 24th, but for completely different reasons. Anyway, my second plan after India was off was to leave on the night of the 24th and travel around for a week and a half, but now thats also impossible since it is the 25th and Im still not 100% feeling better. So I have to take it a day at a time and see how long until I feel better. This flu has completely derailed everything, my school class, my vacation plans, and obviously my health. I cant wait to be better. 