Of all the pandemic movies out there Steven Soderberghs Contagion has to be one the more believable. Written by Scott Z. Burns it is frighteningly realistic. The film traces the path of a fictional virus, MEV-1, as it infects and kills globally at an alarming rate, and follows the progress of the Centres for Disease Control and prevention and the World Health Organisation in stopping it. But just how realistic is it? Everyone is aware of the potentially devastating effects a global pandemic can have on the human race but could a killer virus really spread so fast? Kill so quickly? Lets start with the term Pandemic. The font of all knowledge, Wikipedia, lists the definition of Pandemic as an epidemic of infectious disease that has spread through human populations across a large region Think the plague, smallpox etc. So is there any precedent for a truly global pandemic? Lets take a look at some of the more well known diseases. Plague The earliest recorded case of bubonic plague was in Egypt in 541 AD. There are still isolated cases cropping up today in the western United States. Plague is a bacterial infection caused by Yersinia pestis. Human transmission is through contact with infected tissue or the cough of an infected person. Possibly the best known epidemic in history, the Black Death affected mainly Europe between 1357 and 1453 and killed an estimated 75 million. By the 1370s Englands population had been reduced by 50%. Half an entire countrys people dead. Although Europe was worst affected the Black Death spread as far as Asia and Africa. Plague vaccines have not been found to be particularly effective and prevention comes through public health measures. Antibiotics are used to treat plague victims with a 90% success rate. Without treatment, between 30% and 90% of cases result in death. Spanish Flu Influenza  the big guy. Avian Influenza is a virus that kills by causing a massive overreaction of the bodys immune system. In 1918 H1N1 infected 500 million people worldwide. it resulted in the deaths of 50  100 million. 3 to 5 percent of the worlds population. The unusual thing about this particular influenza outbreak is that it killed predominantly healthy young adults as oppose to the more common juvenile, elderly or weak. The disease spread to every corner of the globe including India, Japan, America and most of Europe. H1N1 had an infection rate of 50% and a mortality rate of 20%. Huge when compared to the usual flu epidemic rate of 0.1%. Spanish flu has been described as the greatest medical holocaust in history. It is said that this flu killed more people in 24 weeks than AIDS has in 24 years, more in a year than the Black Death killed in a century. Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers There are several hemorrhagic fevers around today. Lassa, Rift Valley, Marburg virus to name but a few, but the one were all thinking about here is Ebola. The Ebola virus is transmitted by the direct contact with body fluids of an infected person showing symptoms of the disease. Ebola, in its various strains has killed around 11,000 people since first emerging in 1976. We all remember the outbreak in West Africa in 2013. Ebola spread rapidly and had a devastating effect on those countries affected. So why, when the virus grew so quickly in those West African nations, didnt we see more cases in other parts of the world? Well, quick thinking and fast action by the WHO helped. Intense contact tracing and strict isolation techniques prevented further spread of the disease. There is currently no medication that is safe and effective in the treatment of Ebola Virus Disease, and vaccines are in the very early stages. Average chances of death after contracting Ebola are 50% and can be as high as 90%. What about Contagion? The deadly disease in the film is a virus named MEV-1. It is said to be a Chimeric virus, being a combination of a virus whos natural host is bats and another whos natural host is pigs. It has an incubation period of 4 days and kills within hours of the onset of symptoms. Pretty nasty. The potential a disease has for pandemic is based around a few key features. Transmission, Incubation period, Mortality rate and something called the R0 (pronounced R naught). There are lots of transmission types, such as contact with body fluids, airborne, airborne droplets, sexual, fomites (objects touched by both infected and non-infected people). The incubation period of a disease is important because its the period of time a person has to communicate the disease before the onset of symptoms and they isolate themselves from others. The mortality rate of a disease, simply put is the percentage of people who have been infected who die. The R0 is the Basic Reproductive Ratio. In laymans terms it shows how many people, on average, a single case will infect in the course of its infectious period. I think a table would help here!  If were considering the viability of a contagious disease as the thing that ends civilization as we know it (and, by the way, that is exactly what were considering) then we have to look at the worst case scenario. What would our world ending bug look like? We need a disease that spreads fast, so a high R0 is essential. The R0 is directly affected by the method of transmission. Fomites and airborne transmission are, hands down the most effective forms of communication. A longer incubation period also helps the R0. The longer a person is infectious before they become sick and isolate themself, the more people they will infect. Simple. Finally, a high mortality rate is a given. Is there such a disease? Well, no. At least not yet. In the movie Jennifer Ehle has a great line, whilst analysing the virus. Somewhere in the world the wrong pig met up with the wrong bat. And, seriously folks, thats all it takes.When looking at the essential traits for an end-of-civilisation bug one contender is head and shoulders above the other. Influenza. At this point id like to introduce you to this man  Dr Robert G Webster Until recently it was assumed that pandemic strains of influenza (H1N1, H5N1 etc) arise from mutations of human flu strains. Dr Webster posited and then discovered that, in fact, these devastating strains of influenza arise from genes in flu virus strains in nonhumans; for example, via a reassortment of genetic segments between viruses in humans and nonhumans, especially birds. Lets try to put this in terms most of us would understand. Influenza doesnt begin its journey in a human host. It starts off in the intestines of wild aquatic birds. This form of the virus doesnt replicate well in human hosts so it must move to an intermediate host, usually domestic fowl or swine that drinks water contaminated with the feces of aquatic birds.Although the intermediate hosts can sicken and die from the infection, swine can live long enough to serve as mixing vessels for the genes of avian, porcine and human forms of influenza. This occurs because swine have receptors for both avian viruses and human viruses. So you can picture pigs as living laboratories, where avian and mammalian forms of influenza can come together, share their genes and create new strains of flu.  [Much of the above is taken from Websters article The world is teetering on the edge of a pandemic that could kill a large fraction of the human population, published in American Scientist. You can find the article here. Read it!] All sounds fairly familiar, huh? Burns clearly did his research. The virus in the movie was a genetic reassortment of two separate viruses, and was passed from pig to human. Ok, so finally, the judgement. If youve read this far you deserve a quick finish so ill get to it. Is the scenario, set out in Contagion, a believable and viable way for civilisation to come to an end? Well, yes, actually it is. Score  And its only a 4 because the CDC and the WHO are so damn good at their jobs! Any virus would have to be very sneaky and work really hard to get past those guys. 