 Yesterday I started feeling slightly congested. I have terrible allergies this spring (thanks climate change!) and figured it was just something blowing around in the wind. By last night I was feeling achy and exhausted and thats when I knew I had a dreaded springtime cold. When I start to feel sick, I go into lockdown mode. I cancel anything thats not totally necessary and hunker down. Rest is the most impactfulthing you can do when you start to feel under the weather, and Ive learned time and again that trying to push through only prolongs the misery. Netflix binges of Grace andFrankie and Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt are possibly indicated. In addition to Netflix binges rest I also add a few remedies. I drink a green smoothie in the mornings to slam as many fruits and veggies into my system as I can (if youre interested in green smoothies, click here to learn about the challenge I did in the fall). All those vitamins are fantastic immune boostersfor when you arent feeling 100%.  In addition, I take astragalus three times a day in tincture form. I love this product from Herb Pharm. Click herefor an information page on astragalus published by the National Institutes ofHealth. Its important to know about the herbs and other remedies you use before you start taking them. I buy it at Whole Foods but you can also order it on Amazon. I also take Gaia Black Elderberry Syruptwice a daywhich I also getat Whole Foods. Multiple studies published by the NIH have shown elderberry syrup to be antiviral and immune boosting. Read herefor one of them. I also use aneti pot to flush yucky stuff out of my sinuses. Heres a picture of a few different types of neti pots in case you havent seen them before and are wondering what in the fresh heck a neti pot is.  I learned recently that it also helps when you have fluid in your ear. Learning to use and get accustomed to a neti pot isnt hard, in my opinion. Its not for everybody but I highly recommend it! I buy packets of saline solution at my local drugstore. I also eat copious amounts of raw garlic (sorry family) and drizzle raw honey on stuff because both are antiviral and the honey also soothes a sore throat and a cough. And sleep. Obviously. If you cant fit downtime into your day (many people cant), then try going to bed extra early for a few nights. Please comment below and tell me what you do to fight off the crud. Im always looking for new things to add to my repertoire! ***And as always, please know that I am not a doctor and Im not authorized to prescribe any medical treatment to anyone. Please check with your health care provider before adding any over the counter treatments. 