[ooyala code=hhYTdnMzE67ir1V3ImiHJ7c9G9FFLtkl player_id=f9babf3a1fd64fbb82916ce9d76ffcfa width=640 height=360 auto=true] SELINSGROVE  A student in the Selinsgrove Area School District is in critical condition because of complications from the flu. A second student was taken to the hospital with a virus. Both boys are on the high schools baseball team. This has parents in Selinsgrove worried. After several students recently came down with the flu, school officials in Selinsgrove put an advisory on the districts website. Even so, the superintendent says it is safe to send your kids to school. Logan Hile is a pitcher for Selinsgrove Area High Schools baseball team, but right now the 14 year old is resting in a hospital bed at Hershey Medical Center. Logan recently suffered complications from the flu, causing his kidneys to malfunction. Earlier this week, another Selinsgrove High School baseball player was also taken to the hospital. Parents are concerned. I have given thought to the fact that theres now two baseball players that have come down with a virus, said Jeri Batchelder. Selinsgrove Area Superintendent Chad Cohrs contacted the Centers for Disease Control after several students in the district recently came down with the flu. They said no not really, its normal. The flu season is not just in the winter months, but the flu season can actually occur all year long, said Cohrs. Cohrs does not believe there is a flu outbreak at the Selinsgrove Area School District. Even so, he put an advisory on the districts website. We just wanted to make sure that were doing our due diligence and make sure that theres not an outbreak because of students being in close contact with each other. Some parents tell Newswatch 16 they are considering keeping their kids home from school just in case. The parents we spoke with will take extra precautions. Make some phone calls, yeah. I didnt realize you could go to the hospital and there were actually kids from her school going to the hospital, said Brian Nornhold. We are doing a lot of hand washing, all the safety things, but I wish there was more information out about this virus, Batchelder added. Newswatch 16 contacted Pennsylvanias Department of Health. It is not involved in this case. The Centers for Disease Control says there is not a flu outbreak in Selinsgrove. 