Weve done it with the highest standard of sustainable mining in the world Premier Christy Clark, 2012 We found over a decade of neglect in compliance and enforcement program activities  B.C. Auditor General, 2016  The muddy torrent that ripped down Mount Polley dam and turned gentle Hazeltine Creek into a toxic canyon also did something else: It swept away a decade of empty government boasts about environmental stewardship. The recent Auditor General report on compliance and enforcement of the mining sector pulls no punches about the state of mine regulation: The ministry is deficient in carrying out most of the expected regulatory activities.  On several occasions in the last 10 years, ministry staff told higher-level management that inadequate monitoring and inspection, due to insufficient staffing levels, was putting the province at risk. And risk became reality at Mount Polley. Auditor General Carol Bellringer was particularly damning on the provinces regulation of Mount Polley, stating: We noted the same issues in the Mount Polley file as we did throughout the audit  that is, too few resources, infrequent inspections, and lack of enforcement. Perhaps most important, the Auditor General team concluded that at Mount Polley: Government failed to conduct the required geotechnical inspections of the dam every year;  If inspections had been done, inspectors could well have identified problems and avoided the disaster. The Auditor Generals highest-priority recommendation was that the Ministry of Energy and Mines needs to get out of the enforcement business  that government should create a truly independent enforcement agency to vigorously enforce the law. Bellringer noted that the ministry cant do this because of the inherent conflict in its dual role of promoting industry, and then regulating the same industry it boosts. Bellringer specifically noted that the ministry is at risk of regulatory capture  of serving industry interests instead of the public interest. One key example of industry interests trumping the public interest is the governments failure to make companies post enough security to pay for future mine cleanups. This leaves taxpayers at risk to pay the bill (like the $700 million that Yukon taxpayers are now paying at the Faro Mine). Alaska and Quebec handle this better. They require companies to put up security for 100 per cent of potential cleanup costs. They believe that companies, not taxpayers, should clean up their own mess. As a result, the Teck Resources mine in northern Alaska is fully bonded for $560 million in reclamation costs, and Alaska taxpayers are protected. But B.C. doesnt require the same company to protect B.C. taxpayers. Across the province, Teck mines have unsecured reclamation costs of over $700 million. This policy flaw could cost you dearly. The Auditor General has warned that the growing unfunded taxpayer liability for mine cleanups across the province now exceeds $1.2 billion. Where to from here? The ramshackle regulatory system that the government has long touted as world-leading is clearly a dysfunctional mess. It cannot be relied upon to safeguard our pristine lakes and rivers from an industry that can permanently poison entire watersheds. Fortunately, both the Auditor General and the governments expert panel on Mount Polley warn that business as usual cannot continue  and have called for dramatic reform. Faced with mounting evidence of overwhelming government neglect and bumbling, the politicians are making the right noises about implementing change. But there is a real question whether the government will actually take the steps necessary. After all, the Auditor General warned in 2003 about the serious risk of unfunded mining liability  and the provinceresponded by quadrupling the financial risk to taxpayers over the last decade. It is particularly troubling that the government has refused to embrace the central recommendations of both the Auditor General and an expert engineering panel:  Government rejected the most important Auditor General Recommendation  to move enforcement out of the mines ministry to a truly independent enforcement agency;  Government has not committed to the expert panels most significant recommendation  that the province systematically transition from building large tailings ponds to the safer technology of dry stack tailings. Despite the panels warning that two tailings dams will likely fail every decade, the minister has finessed commitment to this recommendation  and shuffled it off for extended review. Nevertheless, our broken regulatory system is not irredeemable. It can be fixed, and two expert bodies have pointed out how. Now, politicians just need to implement the recommendations made. Hopefully, if we do it right, we will someday be able to truly boast that we have the most sustainable mining in the world. Calvin Sandborn is legal director of the University of Victorias Environmental Law Centre. 