PROTECTION: BCHS immunisation nurse Megan OKeefe vaccinates executive assistant Christine Whatley against influenza. BENDIGO Community Health Services aims to vaccinate more than 2500 employees against influenza under its workplace immunisation program this season. BCHS community health nurses are now offering central Victorian organisations the chance to protect their workers from strains of the virus including the California, Hong Kong and Brisbane flu. Last year we immunised 2200 employees in the Bendigo region and this season we hope to reach 2500 or more, said community health nurse immuniser Heather Hinton. This is World Immunisation Week (April 24-30) and employers are encouraged to consider taking part in the BCHS Prevention and Population Health workplace influenza vaccination program. Influenza affects an individuals capacity to work and care for their family, Ms Hinton said. In the workplace, staff can transmit the virus to others by breathing in airborne droplets from someones cough or sneeze, or touching surfaces that have been contaminated. Unlike the common cold, influenza can cause severe illness and life-threatening complications such as pneumonia and bronchitis, which often require hospitalisation. Government data shows an average of 13,500 Australians aged over 50 are hospitalised every year from the virus, resulting in more than 3000 deaths. The World Health Organisation recommends vaccination is your best defence against flu. The advantage to an organisation to be part of the immunisation program includes the reduction in staff absenteeism and the effects on productivity, if staff are protected, Ms Hinton said. But there are also wider community benefits  if more people are vaccinated, the prevalence of influenza is reduced, lowering the risk to the most vulnerable within the community. This is the first year BCHS has offered the quadrivalent (four-strain) vaccine, which also protects against Phuket flu, but the three-strain trivalent dose is also suitable for healthy individuals, especially those who received Phuket protection as part of last years flu immunisation program. A lot of people choose not to be immunised because of the myth that if you get the vaccine, you will get the flu. But that is not the case; the vaccine does not contain a live virus, Ms Hinton said. BCHS visits workplaces in Bendigo and surrounding towns delivering employee vaccinations. To enquire about the program, contact BCHSs Eaglehawk site on 5434 4300. 