Bill C-14, which would legalize assisted suicide and euthanasia, was introduced three weeks ago. The timing of the legislations tabling coincided with a state of emergency declared by the Attawapiskat First Nations Reserve after 39 people attempted suicidein six weeks. A study published in October reports increases in total suicide rates in each American state that has legalized assisted suicide. As a nation, are we prepared to face the real effectof state-sanctioned suicide on vulnerable persons? Liberal MP Robert-Falcon Ouellette (Winnipeg Centre), who is an indigenous Canadian, has said he will not vote for the legislation, citing concerns about the impact the legislation will have on First Nations communities. Ouellettetold the CBC, Im concerned that we havent thought out the complete ramifications that a decision like this might have on indigenous communities that seem to be suffering greatly. In early response to this concern, Indigenous Affairs Minister Carolyn Bennett focused on the language used in discussions on the bill: that medical assistance in dying is referred to by some as assisted suicide.The more we can keep that separate, the better,she said. When addressing concerns by other Liberal caucus members about aboriginal youth linking medically assisted dying and suicide, Bennett was recorded saying, Weve got to do a better job explaining the difference. So what, exactly, is this difference? Suicide is defined as the intentional taking of ones life.Assisted suicideis defined as the act of killing oneself intentionally with the assistance of another who provides the means, the knowledge, or both. Both involve the intentional taking of life, but candiffer by method. This sounds like semantics. Focusing on the word choice here is to miss the true concerns of aboriginal leaders. They areconcernedabout the effectthis legislation will have on their communities and on people struggling with depression and suicidal thoughts. And rightfully so. Under Bill C-14, people in Attawapiskat who meet the criteria provided in Bill C-14 will be able to request suicide assistance and end their lives. The argument may be made that few of those suicidal in Attawapiskat would qualify for assisted suicide or euthanasia under Bill C-14. However, as the study in the October edition of the Southern Medical Journal demonstrates, general suicide rates increase,not decrease, after legalization. Overall, there has been an average of a 6.3 per cent increase in suicides (assisted and unassisted) among the states where assisted suicide was legalized. Proponents of Bill C-14 have argued that assisted suicide legislation canlowersuicide rates, but this evidence contradicts that assumption. Bioethicist Margaret Somerville hasnotedthat in the Netherlands and Belgium, where assisted suicide and euthanasia have been legal for decades, euthanasia accounts for four per centand 4.6 per cent of all deaths each year, respectively. According to Statistics Canada, in 2013-14, a total of 256,982 people died. If for that year 4.6 per cent of Canadian deaths were attributed to assisted death, then we would have lost 11,821 people. This number is staggering. These trends raise particular concern for Canadas aboriginal communities, whereHealth Canadahas determined that suicide rates are already5.5 times higherthan suicide rates in non-aboriginal communities. Aboriginal leaders are right to be concerned. As Canadians, we should all be. So is there a legitimate concern regarding the impact of legalized assisted suicide on vulnerable communities, such as Attawapiskat? Yes, there is. Premature death in Attawapiskat is a tragedy, and federal and provincial actors are already responding with resources to address the rash of suicide attempts. But as the government responds to this tragedy, it is also passing legislation that will increase Canadas suicide rates. Even if we attempt to separate these two issues, the reality is that medical research shows assisted suicide legislation increases suicide rates, which will negatively affect Attawapiskat and other First Nations communities, where suicide rates are already disproportionately high. If we are concerned about Attawapiskat and value the lives of those who attempt suicide, we should be even more concerned now in light of the impending legalization of assisted suicide. Faye Sonieris executive director and general legal counsel of Canadian Physicians for Life. 