With the U.S. presidential campaign in full swing, American attention is naturally focusing on purely domestic issues. Might a moment be spared to consider what presidential qualitieswould serve the international interests both of the U.S. and its global partners? What the world wants and needs from the next American administration and Congress is the continuation and enhancement of global stability and global economic growth. This benefits all, not least the U.S.as the worldleader in trade, investment and innovation. As the capacity of the U.S. consumer levels off and declines in leading domestic growth, the global market is increasingly significant to U.S. economic performance. Enlightened U.S. presidential leadership must reject Darwinian solutions to global competition. World stability itself requires policy attention to measures that will, over time, reduce the distance between the richest and the poorest in our global society. While the U.S. must be a leader, the responsibility for the development of global equity must be shared among those who can contribute. Its essential for the next president to accept and succeed in the challenge of bringing greater awareness to the American people of where their real interests lie in their foreign relations, both for the nation as a whole and for those sectors of the economy that are either winners or losers in the global trade game. No sector should be left to pay the cost while the winners take all. Creative destruction has political, social, and economic costs that must be mitigated in the national interest. Beginning with the post-war era, the United States, then the worlds most powerful country, enhanced global recovery with such policies as trade development with GATT and WTO; currency stability with the Bretton Woods agreements and the reserve currency role of the U.S. dollar; and multilateral institutions such as the United Nations, the World Bank and others. In the Nixon-Kissinger era, it moved to end Chinas isolation. In the Reagan era, it opened the way to rapprochement with Russia. However, the success of these policies has brought about a paradigm shift. Many countries in recent decades have raised their economic capacities, and some, their military and nuclear abilities.The strategic goal set out by the U.S. National Security Council in 2001 with its dictum of maximum spectrum dominance is no longer realistic. U.S. military power cannot directly be challenged, but its capacity to act as a stabilizer everywhere and at any time has been shown to have real limitations. While U.S. economic power remains substantial, its trade and investment dominance is declining. Todays challenges include global warming and environmental degradation; the instability of oil and other energy pricing; the failure of the Doha comprehensive trade round; threats to the stability of the worlds financial institutions; and nihilistic terrorism. These and many other issues are the responsibility of the global family, but the United States has the pivotal role to play in new policy formulation and consensus building. It must do so interacting with global society and its domestic community, and both at the same time. The U.S. cannot remain an effective global leader if it does not have the understanding and support of the folks back home. In the U.S., Canada, and other developed nations, there is a myopia that needs to be addressed. It is peculiar that this short-termism is pervasive, as most now alive will live long enough to deal with the costs of that approach. In business, this attitude can be destructive of capital, the marketplace and business institutions. In government, with no incentive to see beyond the next election, programs are tactical rather than strategic. What the world needs in the next U.S. president is someone who can manage U.S. national fears in the context of an optimistic and confident approach to global issues, taking its global partners and their interests fully into account. Will Americans elect that kind of president? Jack Austin is a former senator and served as a cabinet minister in the Pierre Trudeau and Paul Martin governments. He lives in Vancouver. 