 On January 25, 2002, the Disney Channelaired the Even Stevens episode Influenza: The Musical. In many ways, the networkhasnt been the same since then. The musical episode of this beloved show occurred atthe end of its second season. As was customary of all Disney shows at the time, there would only be three seasons, but despite the sitcomsshort run, the show had a lasting impact. Influenza specifically proved to the channels executives that kids love a good musical and that the format would work for futuresitcoms and original movies. AfterInfluenza, the network followed suit with a musical episode of Thats So Raven,the original movie High School Musical in 2006, and its first sequel, which is their highest-rated original movie to date. Premiering in mid-2000, Even Stevens came to be during the Zoog Disney era of the channel, a rebranding ofthe network that started in 1998 with shows like So Weird, The Famous Jett Jackson, and The Jersey, original movies like Brink and Zenon: Girl of the 21st Century, and promos with little creatures called Zoogsthatencouraged kids to get on the World Wide Web. In the midst of all this was Even Stevens. Created by Matt Dearborn (who had previously co-produced The Secret World of Alex Mack on Nickelodeon), the show centered around Louis Stevens (Shia LaBeouf), a middle school goofball whos part of a family of overachievers, such as his academically brilliant older sister Ren (Christy Carlson Romano), athletic superstar brother Donnie (Nick Spano), his senator mom Eileen (Donna Pescow), and lawyer father Steven (Tom Virtue). Bythe time the show pitched Influenza to Disney, execs were unsurea musical episode of a sitcom could work. Sure, they had music-centric shows like Kids Incorporated and The All-NewMickey Mouse Club in the late 80s/early 90s, but an entire sitcom turned musicalwasnt something they projected would garner much success. We spoke with Even Stevens creator Matt Dearborn, producer and Influenza director Sean McNamara, executive producer David Brookwell, writer Jim Wise (who also played Coach Tugnut), composer John Coda, and actors Christy Carlson Romano, Lauren Frost (Ruby Mendel), A.J. Trauth (Alan Twitty), Nick Spano (Donnie Stevens), and Ty Hodges (Larry Beale) on the creation of Even Stevens, the making of Influenza, andits legacy.  We Always Find a Way Originally titled Spiveys Kid Brother, Dearborns show wasset to focus on the life of a young Louis Spivey. The show quickly evolved into Even Stevens, a show about young slacker Louis Stevens and his perfect Sacramento family. With the apparent chemistry between actors Shia LaBeouf and Christy Carlson Romano, the creators shifted the focus after the first few episodes to highlight their sibling rivalry.The first episode aired on June 17, 2000, surrounded by shows like Totally Circus and In a Heartbeat.As the second season of Even Stevens was coming to a close, the writers and producers turned to the television convention of a musical episode. A fewactors on the show had a Broadway background, like Romano and Frost, as well as professional dance training, likeTy Hodges. With theseactors well suited for the challenge, the concept was pitched to the network and, despiteexecutivesdoubts, they gave the Even Stevens folks theokay to commence with the challenge. Sean McNamara, Executive Producer/Director: I had done musical theatre when I was in high school Hair, Godspell, all this stuff. My composer, John Coda, he was the drummer in my band and I use to always say, I just wish we could do musicals. Matt Dearborn, Creator/Writer:When youre in series television, at some point, when youre scrambling to come up with episodes, somebody always says, Well, lets do a musical episode, along with, Lets do a black-and-white episode, Lets do the time travel episode. There are certain television conventions. We just decided to do the musical episode. McNamara: Jim Wise, who actually wrote the words to the songs, went to Loyola High School and we were in plays together. And John Coda, who was in my band, we all got together and said, We can pull this thing off. And thats how we pitched them. Weve been doing this since high school, lets give it a shot. David Brookwell, Executive Producer:  The one thing that I recall was that Disney Channel, they were not interested in doing a musical anything, especially a scripted comedy. It really wasnt something that they envisioned being successful at all. But I think the idea was so radicalit was a great, funny entry point with Ren hallucinating. It was a great pitch and we all felt confident that we could pull it off because we had some really great talent as far as writing the music and coming up with some great lyrics. A.J. Trauth, Alan Twitty: There hadnt been any musical episodes yet. Obviously Hannah Montana hadnt come out yet, Glee didnt exist, High School Musical obviously didnt exist, Hilary Duff was barely on the channel, so they hadnt started doing the crossover thing with music and their acting talents. It was a novel concept for the time so we didnt know what to expect. McNamara: Britney Spears had been on Disney Channel, they knew music worked, but it was the whole theatre aspect of it that had not been tried, to my knowledge I had done a show called Kids Incorporated for Disney also, and Kids Incorporated was a music show, but the kids actually performed on stage. They would actually sing the songs with a band, a proper thing, not a full on musical where you let the music propel the story. Even Stevens was the first full on musical back when they thought that nobody would like musicals. Christy Carlson Romano, Ren Stevens: Marc Warren and Matt Dearborn and [executive producer] Dennis [Rinsler] would call us in at the beginning of the season They sat us down and each of us talked about what we wanted for the character. And I think, for me, because I have a background in musical theatre, they were kind of like, Oh, that could be kind of fun. But its something Im sure they had been thinking of, as well. But it was exciting that it was something that was my strong suit. Lauren Frost, Ruby Mendel: Even if they werent theatre trained  like me or Christy  A.J. got to play guitar in the episode, Margos always written music, too, so I think it was just the writers saw an opportunity. Music was part of the set always, whether we were hanging out in the makeup and hair trailer listening to it, or I know Shia and A.J. always had their guitars around on set and then down time. So it was a really cool extension of our own personal interests that they picked up on. John Coda, Composer: It was a bunch of kids, really talented, and sometimes wed hang out in the back, A.J. would be strumming guitar and I remember Shia wanted to learn how to play drums. McNamara: [Jim Wise] and I were like the musical dudes. We always played guitars around the set. We kept a drum set and guitars in the lobby and so we were always just making music. And what was fun about it was we were older, in our 30s, 40s, and we were playing with these young kids who were in their teens just because I think we were trying to re-live our youth and they were all getting into learning. We were showing them how to play guitar, showing them how to surf, showing them how to do all the things that we love to do.  Whats the Matter with Ren? In Influenza, Ren Stevens has the flu andthus is unable to go to school. This poses a problem for the perfectionist as she is obsessed with being granted aperfect attendance award. She is determinedto go to school despite her illness. Once there she discovers that itsturned intomusical madness. Principal Wexler sings a Motown-inspired numberabout the morningannouncements. Louis, Tawny(Margo Harshman), and Twitty sashay down the halls while crooning about how to avoid sixth period. And, ultimately, Ren finds herself giving a shamefully shallow, though beautifully sung, presentation on the moon landing in which she doles out one single fact, We went to the moon in 1969, not 1968, but a year after. She, of course, gets an F, but wakes up to find out that the high school musical was only but a dream. Brookwell: Here youve got a girl who never misses school, and heres shes sick and she wants to go to school no matter if shes sick or not. Weve all had those moments. I remember when I was in college Id wake up in the middle of the night, I always had these recurring dreams that Id miss every single one of my classes and Im failing. [Laughs.] And then you realize its just a dream, a nightmare. So she wakes up and she goes to school and is like, What do you mean theres a test today? So, I just laugh about it today because it was such a great premise. Coda: Everybody just got excited with the idea. I remember the writers coming to me, Hey, wed like to do a musical. And I said, Great, thats awesome. They said, Were going to do a bunch of songs here, and I knew that was going to be a big task. So the first thing I realized is I needed to bring in some additional help and Jim Wise was the first one that came to mind because we had worked professionally together over the years, and one of the things that I really liked about Jim was his talent with, not only songwriting, but his talent with lyrics. McNamara: [Jim] did a thing in The Groundlings where they would throw out a word and he would turn it into a song. Hed have the audience throw out a word like stockings and smelly feet, and then he would turn that into a song. And hes just a great songwriter. Brookwell: Jim has gone on to have a very successful career as a comedy writer. He worked on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno for many, many years and he also won three Emmys for writing music for skits on that show. So hes an immense talent. You throw any musical genre at him and some non-sequitur, and hell start doing a Led Zeppelin version of Mary Had a Little Lamb or something like that. Putting him together with John Coda and coming up with this music was really genius. Jim Wise (Coach Tugnut/writer): They knew I had a music background, so they basically made a framework of the story and then I wrote all the music and lyrics for the songs. I made very basic acoustic guitar tracks with vocals on them, and then I went to the composers house, John Coda, and he produced the sophisticated tracks that are part of the show. Coda:We just spent days working on these demos of those songs. And Jims a great singer, as well. Jim Wise is a huge part of it, especially his ability to write lyrics. Hes so fast. If I, for example, were to be working on Master of the Gym, I came up with a rough musical idea for that and then he would come up with 20 different ideas for the lyrics. Wise: I was driving to a Dodgers game or something [Laughs.] and I was like, Oh this is how its going to go. And I recorded into my phone. It wasnt even an iPhone at that point, it was some flip phone and I called myself or made a recording somehow and sang it into the phone. I didnt have the lyrics or anything like that, so I just went, Bum, bum, bum, bum, da, da-da, da, da-da, da, da-da. Because I knew thats what I wanted to do. Coda: I Always Find aWay, I wanted that song in particular to sound kind of like the theme song, just to give it that flavor because I almost felt like the theme song fit Louis Stevens personality, so I wanted to give that particular song the personality of the show. Versus say, We Went to the Moon, which had a different style altogether and if it was about the moon landing in 1969. I wanted to give it, for some reason, a little bit of a 60s sound in terms of the arrangement. Wise: If youre a good musician you probably listen to a lot of music and I listen to a lot. I will tell you this, I completely ripped off the feel of The Beatles song Penny Lane for We Went to the Moon, thats what that was based on. For the song Sixth Period, it was supposed to be this intense, overwrought, over-the-top, but dramatic, like it was Les Miserables. Whats the matter with Ren, now thats a waltz. [Laughs.] Thats the other thing [laughs], the producers were like, We should have Larry rap, Larry Beale. And Im like, Oh, because hes African American? Really? And I was kind of against it because it seemed like such a cliche. I wrote that section and it comes out of the waltz. I was very proud of the waltz. Its 3/4 time, its almost like I could see that song being in The Sound of Music or something like that. I was a little bummed by the, Yeah lets have him rap. Brookwell: When we first heard the music, the test tracks, were all laughing our butts off thinking, this is going to be great. It was such a crazy idea, but what was cool about Even Stevens, especially the second season, is when we really started feeling our legs and getting our legs under us. And Disney Channel was really busy with a bunch of other shows so they started leaving us alone and so we really were able to stretch out and do some different things.  Were the Masters of the Gym Despite any reservations castmembers, writers, and producers may have had as theyembarked on Influenza, everyone fully indulged in the process. The musical was much more involved than a typical episode and a week hiatus wasutilizedto do the necessary pre-recording and song and dance rehearsals. Granted not everyone was a as experienced with the mechanics of a musical, but the Broadway spiritwas infectious for everyone on set. Brookwell: I think we all were [worried]. We were all biting our nails going, Oh shit, is this going to work or not? But when everyone started rehearsing and actually dancing, when we had it up on its feet  you can read the script and you can listen to the music and thats one thing, but when the actors actually read the lines and rehearsing the dance as theyre singing the songs, thats when you start going, Oh my god, this is really coming together. Dearborn: I was a little nervous, but the [cast] rose to the occasion. Even Louis himself. Shia isnt really a singer. He sort of talked his way through it, but it worked. Christy can sing and a few others, but I think the others were like, Really? You want me to sing? It was more of, Trust me, youre going to be fine. And it was fine. Brookwell: It was very exciting because it was different. It wasnt just, lets drop the kids in a vat of chili, lets fly Louis around on a wire like a ninja. It was different, were doing a musical episode. Like, Broadway musical type of thing? Yeah! Cool, lets do itWe prepped the episode over a hiatus because we needed to pre-record all the music and then there was a day or two of rehearsals where we brought in a choreographer and that was kind of fun. Sean McNamara directed the episode, and it was right up his alley because when he was in college and out of college he directed a lot of musicals on stage and so he wasnt afraid of that. It was an easy episode for him to really dig his teeth into. Wise: I gotta say that Ive tried to pitch a musical series since and they just havent hit it yet. But its tough. It took twice as long to put this together because you have to choreograph it and you have to work on the music and do all that stuff as opposed to just writing an episode which you can bang out in a week and then have it good to go the following week. How normal TV works. We had two weeks. We had a full week of rehearsal, then we blocked and shot everything the following week. Ty Hodges, Larry Beale: I think everyone was very excited and geeked about doing it. No one cared if they had a good voice or not. I didnt even think I had a good voice. Jumping into this none of us were limited to, I dont know how to do this, or I feel uncomfortable. It was, Lets do this, lets have fun. I think thats what made the show so serious is that we didnt take ourselves so serious. Frost: I personally felt like I was back doing a theatre show, which was cool. And then we had to individually record our parts and while shooting we were lip-synching. I was pretty much living out my fantasy of being Mariah Carey in a music video. I got the best of both worlds, the theatre girl in me was really excited and then, also, Im singing on TV. I felt really cool. [Laughs.] Wise: We didnt know that Shia could sing at all. Not that hes Pavarotti or anything like that, but he could actually carry a tune and hes got a character voice, an interesting voice. And A.J. was far more musical and Margo was a decent singer, which was fine for what we were doing. But Christy was the real good singer and George Anthony Bell, who played Principal Wexler, I thought a Motown song would be kind of fitting for his whole vibe, so I wrote The Morning Announcements song. You definitely have to keep in mind who youre writing for, for anything really. Trauth: Some of our cast members were very talented when it came to musical theatre. And then there was me and  not to say anything against them  but Shia and Margo. I think we were all on a different level in terms of being able to sing and dance and do them both at the same time. I think its pretty apparent. You hear Christy, Lauren, and Ty sing and they sound great, and Jim Wise, they sound great! Margo, Shia, and I its like, oh my God, this is rough. Romano: I think Shia was a little uncomfortable with it initially because I think he was like, This is so weird. But as you can see, he really made the most of it and I think did a really great job once he threw himself into it. I also think when he does the obstacle course song, its pretty obvious that hes having a good time. Thats the key to it. Were just having fun. For me, on the other hand, I was like, ugh, no. I Rend it. I was type A. We had rehearsal for Sixth Period. We had lots of dance rehearsals. Instead of extras, we had professional dancers, so it was really was like High School Musical before there was High School Musical. Nick Spano, Donnie Stevens: When you watch the episode, I think I have two words. Not two lines, two words. [Laughs.] I think I had all of two words to sing. Frost: I loved doing Whats the Matter with Ren, because we got to dance on tables [Laughs.] and I got to sing with Gary [Gray], which was fun. The whole thing felt really cool. I thought I was in Sister Act II or something. Wise: You know how its Lauren Frost and then the kid, the little guy  his name escapes me. Why am I not on the Even Stevens IMDb page? Lets see hereGary [Gray], he couldnt sing, so thats actually my voice coming out of him. [Laughs.] You know who was on Even Stevens way after or way early was Efren Ramirez from Napoleon Dynamite. McNamara: Did you know that Im the singing cowboy? Thats me riding the horse singing, Were riding the range in 1869, not 1868, but a year after. It was fun, to really be in it. Coda: By the end I think when you watch it, it speaks for itself. I think it holds its own. And thats part of the charm. Its not like everythings perfect. It wasnt too polished. We tried to do as good of a job as we could at the time.  Ive Got Hot Soup, Delicious Chicken Soup Disney Channel couldnt deny the success ofInfluenza, and with its success, the executivesshifted theirprogrammingaccordingly. Future stars of their television shows were also fostered intomusical acts who would have recording deals startingwith Lizzie McGuires Hilary Duff on throughHannah MontanasMiley Cyrus. The success of this one episode also inspired the idea for an entire movie musical, leading to the networks highly successful High School Musical.Beyond the realm of the channel, the show also influenced a myriad of trends we see today. For example, in one episode, Ren gets a job at an all toast eatery at the mall showing that the fancy toast trend all started with this show in 2002. And its worth mentioning that the show fostered the early talent of Shia LaBeoufhis dancing skills in Sias Elastic Heart all trace back to his expertly choreographed performancein Influenza. Frost: I think Even Stevens did a lot for the Disney audience in general. If people didnt respond well to that musical episode, who knows, maybe High School Musical wouldnt have happened? Also, I think everything we dealt with as teenagers or high schoolers on that show was still pretty real and their humor was a little more skewed older, a little more adult then other shows of its time. Hodges: After that High School Musical sparked and it really went in that direction. I think when we did it everyone was surprised because we werent that type of show. Yes, we were campy. Yes we were artistic. Yes it was about adolescents in high school, but to do a musical comedy at that time, we had a mostly boyfanbase, they really didnt understand it until they saw it. McNamara: We were simultaneously producing Thats So Raven and the next thing we produced was the Thats So Raven musical. They liked it so much that the channel said, Lets now do it at Thats So Raven. Then they developed High School Musical and the rest is history. I think what it did was it made the executives feel comfortable that people would respond to musicals. Romano: Disney internally called me and told me that the episode, the musical, was officially named one of the pinnacles within the channels history, that was looked at as one of the biggest shifts in the channels history. And it must be because they then realized it was something they wanted to do across the board. Trauth: Jim Wise and John Coda did such a great job with those songs. Its grown so much and they were really at the forefront of something, specifically with Disney Channel and how much they do now with musicals, even recently with the Descendants. Its been very successful for them and they were the first ones to do it and put it forward. The musics gotten a lot more contemporary, et cetera, as time has gone on. And John and Jims is maybe a bit more, not musical theatre-ish, but just a little bit sillier and a bit more fun and less serious than contemporary. But I think they did a really good job with it. Brookwell: I just remember Gary Marsh, [President of Disney Channel], coming up to me after High School Musical was a huge success, I remember seeing him, I remember exactly where it was, we were in studio lot in Hollywood, in the parking lot, and I congratulated him on the success of High School Musical.And he said, You know, we wouldnt have done that if you guys hadnt done that musical episode of Even Stevens. That gave us the confidence that musicals could work. And that was really a great compliment. Coda: I dont think it gets the credit it deserves, but it definitely, both [Even Stevens and Thats So Raven] musicals, deserve a lot of credit for setting that trend. They were the beta testing. Romano: Its funny because after that people knew I could sing, I dont think they really knew before. So after the musical episode I got a record deal a couple years later. And then a couple years later, as well, I was on Broadway for Beauty and the Beast. It created a lot of opportunity for me and I think subconsciously I was nervous because I knew that it was my big moment and I have to thank the writers because they gave me that moment to shine. McNamara:I have kids now and they watch it and then go, God, this is so much better than the stuff on Disney Channel today. And I say, Oh, you think that because of Papa, and they go, No, because we watch it and we just love it. I think there was some magical alchemy that happened on that show that not every show gets to have. Spano: I didnt expect much out of [Even Stevens]. I certainly didnt expect it to have the following that it still does. Back in the day when the show was on, there wasnt a whole lot of recognition because the kids who were watching the show were obviously not hanging out in the same places I was [laughs]. But now, man, its almost 15 years later, its been quite a while, now all those young people have grown up and I see them out and about and it really holds a special place in peoples lives. Coda: I would have loved to have seen it continue beyond the 65 episodes and I think Shia did, too. It was like a big family. It seemed to be getting better and better then all the sudden they just said, Okay, thats it. I know they did The Even Stevens Movie which was a nice punctuation to the series. Trauth: Even Stevens was the first show to shift the voice of what the Disney Channel was going to become. You were moving away from So Weird, The Jersey, it was a shift away from that and towards the comedy that they still do today. So Lizzie McGuire came after us and there was a certain rivalry there. Im almost positive Lizzie McGuire was much more successful, but we felt a lot of pride in our show, considering ourselves funnier and better written, and sort of at the forefront. Romano: They had The Jersey, they had Jett Jackson. So they had a lot of different things they were trying out and I think for the most part ours won out of the lottery. Hodges: If the show would have lived on, there probably would have been a musical every week. The show had so much life in it and I think the talent in it is incredible. Everyone from that cast, theyre just doing amazing things. Of course Shias career has been able to take on a life of its own. But hes an artist. McNamara: It was funny because [Shia] had done a lot of serious movies after Even Stevens, he did Charlies Angels, he did Constantine, he did I, Robot where he was playing serious parts and I was going, the adult world is missing on Shias comedy. Hodges: Hell do the Sia music video and hell do all these things so you think, wow, this guy did a musical back in the day and his coordination was a little, you know, and now hes doing movement with a young woman thats an incredible dancer. So for me its kind of cool how it just confirms that where our cast is at. Trauth: I dont think theres any denying Shia as a talent and as a comedic talent. Hes a very talented dramatic and, to the best of my knowledge, he hasnt gone back and done any comedy, but as a teenager he was pretty brilliant. And it goes without rivalry that Lizzie McGuire, at that time, there was no comparison between Hilary Duff and Shia LaBeouf, those two, theres not really a discussion. He was definitely wise beyond his years and I only realized that going back and watching episodes of the show a couple years ago. I had no idea at that age. At 14 I thought he and I were doing the same thing. And going back and watching it as an adult I realize, oh no, no, no. I had no idea what was going on and Shia was so aware. So aware and so good at it. Brookwell: Its so funny, were all very, very protective of him. When the media really starts jumping on his misfortunes and that sort of thing, those of us that stay in touch with one another that worked on the show, we get very defensive in front of other people who might say something bad about him because we all grew up together, that show. Those guys were kids at the time. Trauth: Im still acting on occasion, I suppose. But I had moved into production and actually worked with Matt Dearborn on a number of things, so weve got several project in development and some are in television. So who knows, maybe well have the next Even Stevens-esque show out there and Ill be working on it with Matt, but time will tell. Romano: Im teaching acting classes now to kids. Im really passionate about advocating for children who are in the entertainment industry. Im looking to produce a documentary about child actors rehabilitating into society after fame. Its something thats my passion project that Im working on right now. Im still acting, Im actively working, but looking to move towards producing. Its not enough to be an actor anymore, you kind of have to do everything. Frost: Im a producer of a comedy festival called The Funny Women Fest and this is our second year, and were looking to expand and tour. Its a celebration of women in comedy, the idea behind it is to create a platform and an opportunity for female comedic voices in the community and its taking off and Im so happy to be a part of it. Im also a writer now too, so I write features and television shows and TV pilots. Spano: Ive been coaching and training in acting for a number of years and I opened a solar powered spa for seven years that I just sold. And I have another business called City Farm, which manages farmers markets in Los Angeles. Now I have another venture of mine thats bringing me back to the creative world and allowing me to really be an artist again and how I connect with people in my community, so I started a group called Recreation.I host a lot of creative, cultural experiences that are designed to bring people together in positive unique ways. Hodges: I actually wrote a musical called You, Me & The Circus, wrote all the original music with another fellow actor named Omar Epps. Its about a breakup  at a certain age everyone has experienced some sort of breakup and for me it was playful to write music around that. And it was definitely a seed that was planted, its inspiration from Even Stevens. I definitely will say that I am excited that I carry that on into my life and my career and now create content with those elements. 