When Minister Judy Foote announced the review of Canada Post activities on May 5, a small but noisy demonstration of low income citizens, union members and other people was protesting against threepayday lending operations on Bank Street in downtown Ottawa, and in favour of postal banking. Similar demonstrations were held in other cities across Canada. Today, there is an immense opportunity with the Post Office review to bring in postal banking, which could offer products which would offer a real alternative to the usurious interest rates at pay lenders. Their rates range from 442per centto 650 per cent annual rates for loans most often to our poorest citizens! But postal banking could provide much more than just an alternative to pay day loans. Here are six other reasons. Second, the argument is often made by those who oppose postal banking that we have enough banks in Canada. But, in some 45per centof the 3,326 communities in small town and rural Canada, which have a post office, there is no bank or credit union branch! Yes branches are in decline. In 1990, there were 7,964 bank branches in Canada. Today, although the population Canada has increased by 31per centsince then, there are now only 6,348 bank branches, a decline of over 20per cent. My study of rural Canada post offices shows the absurd distances many Canadians, who have a post office, have to endure to get to a bank. The winners are citizens of Campobello Island, New Brunswick, where you have to take a ferry to the U.S. and then drive across the U.S.Canada border to get to a bank, a four-hour trip each way! Canada is a highly urbanized country. If we do not provide the banking services rural Canada needs, and this can be done by postal banking, then we are not offering the opportunities for rural and small town businesses and homeowners that exist in big cities. Third, there are only about 54 banks and credit unions in the over 615 First Nations communities. But many First Nations communities have post offices and postal banking could offer their communities the same opportunities which most non-indigenous communities have had for a long time. The Kiwi postal bank in New Zealand offers special products to its Maori citizens. Fourth, even in Canadas biggest cities, bank branches are scarcer and scarcer in many poor, and even in middle income communities. Just as there are food deserts where there are no longer any major supermarket chains, there are more and more communities with no bank any more but often still a post office. My own Ottawa neighbourhood is such an example. Fifth, our bank rates, just to have a chequing account, are among the highest in the world. Whereas in the UK Postal Banking costs for the best chequing account are only 8 a month, in our big five best equivalent type of account fees are almost double. Postal banking can offer competitive rates which will help drive down other financial institution prices. Sixth, in many postal banking systems, such as France, postal banks also specialize in loaning money to municipalities, in building social housing and in offering banking services to NGOs and co-operatives. In other words, postal banking is filling the voids often left by our traditional banks. We could do the same. Seventh and last point; yes, offering postal banking could help us preserve home delivery and keep rural post offices open, as well as keeping a lot of good jobs in communities across Canada. This is one way of using the bricks and mortar and staff of Canadas largest retail chain with more than 6,200 outlets. And what is wrong with that? Most major countries in the world offer postal banking from Switzerland to the UK to France, Italy and New Zealand. And in all of these countries, postal banking is profitable and helps the post office bottom line while providing services Canadians could really use. John Anderson is the author of three major studies on Canada Post. 