Well, we did not escape this monster spring unscathed: all of us are sick right now. It was a perfect storm of antibiotics, needing to rest my water kefir grains and running out of elderberry syrup. Hamling needed a round of antibiotics for a blister that was migrating down his finger toward his hand. I still have no idea what happened to his poor finger, but he really did need the antibiotics. Right after the antibiotics he got pink eye, then a cold. Then I got the cold, then Hamlette got the cold, and now Hubby has the cold. As an aside: breast milk really does resolve pink eye. In case anyone was wondering. Ive been sick for 14 days now, yall. This sucks. Ive said it before, but Im pretty sure Im on the tail end of it now. At least, my throat isnt sore anymore. So today I thought Id write about all the things I do to help myself through a cold. Its much better to prevent it from happening, but sometimes  despite my best efforts  it happens anyway.  Elderberry syrup. This is the recipe I use. This is kid-approved: Hamling asks me for medicine almost every day. I usually give/take one shot glass a day, but when were sick I up that to 2 for the kids and 3-4 for me. Honey and turmeric. I take a mixture of equal parts honey and turmeric, a dash of fresh cracked black pepper, ginger and cinnamon. This helps with inflammation and is pretty awesome for sore throats. Throat Coat tea with honey. I use this sparingly because Im nursing. Depending on what area of my throat is sore, sometimes Ill just gargle it rather than drinking it. Elderberry tea with honey, coconut oil and gelatin. I dont always add the gelatin, but the coconut oil gives a nice energy boost if Im having a rough day. Netti pot with some sort of probiotic (or Alkalol). This sounds weird, but it really does help. I was breaking open a capsule of probiotcs into my netti pot water (in addition to the salt). I ran out of those and used breast milk in the last two netti pots. It still weirds me out (the breast milk) but it was really helpful. If both of those suggestions are too strange (I dont blame you) you can use Alkalol: it feels awesome! Be sure to use either distilled water, or water youve boiled for a few minutes for your netti pot. Lots of rest. Sometimes this means popping a movie or two on for Hamling. Ive made my peace with that. Salt water gargles in the a.m. I gargle warm salt water after Ive finished oil pulling in the morning. It helps clean out all the post-nasal drip gunk from the night before. Lots of bone broth. Bone broth is pretty delicious just warmed up, seasoned a bit with oregano, in a mug. If you disagree, try making more soups or cooking your savory grains in it. Skin brushing. Skin brushing is supposed to help move/drain the lymph system. All I know is that I feel better after I do it. Usually Ill brush before my hot bath. Hot Himalayan salt bath before bed. I also add vitamin C. I run the water as hot as I can stand (think hot tub hot) and soak for as long as it takes me to watch an episode of anime; usually 45 minutes to an hour, depending on the amount of ads. Be sure to rinse off after so that the salt and vitamin C dont hang out on your skin all night.  I think thats it. What do you do when youre sick? 