Although separated by thousands of miles, the people of Canada and Taiwan share one important aspiration:The voters of both countries recently made it clear they share the common goal of bringing about significant and meaningful changes in how their societies should be governed. For their part, in October, Canadian voters demonstrated their wish for a more open and non-confrontational form of government when they ended the rule of Prime Minister Stephen Harper, turning power over to Liberal leader Justin Trudeau. The major task now confronting Trudeau is to meet the expectations of Canadians at a critical time when Canada and other nations face weak global economic growth. While the challenges facing Trudeau may bedaunting, those facing Taiwans first female president, Tsai Ing-wen of the nominally pro-independence DPP, are not only equally challenging economically but also immensely complicated due tothe extremely sensitive nature of Taiwans relations with China, a former adversary that considers Taiwan a breakaway province. How successfully Tsai manages to meet those challenges could have extremely important consequences, not onlyfor her new government but also for China and the entire East Asiaregion, as well ascountries such asCanada which have increasing trade and economic interests in the region. The stakes are particularly high for Washington, which is committed to defendTaiwan should its sovereignty come under attack. While some might fear the election of 59-year-old Tsai as president could undermine the relatively friction-free atmosphere that existedduring the eight-year rule of former president Ma Ying-jeou, Tsai has indicated she has no intention of moving toward formal independence for Taiwan. But she has warned that Taiwans democratic system and national identity must be respected by China. Beijing is keenly aware that her party historically has favoured the complete formal independence of Taiwan, rather than the current situation whereby both Taiwan and China maintain there is only one China andcarefully avoid being explicit as to what that actually means. Prior to her election, Tsai reportedly indicated she had no intention of changing that understanding, pledging to maintain the status quo for peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait. Nevertheless, she does represent a party whose members historically favour Taiwans formal independence. Beijing has insisted it will never accept Taiwanese independence, even passing legislation giving itthe right to directly intervene in Taiwan if it formalizes its political sovereignty. Notwithstanding the intentions of both Taiwan and China to continue current policies, there nevertheless may be potential storm clouds on the horizon. Despite the many positive measures taken between China and Taiwan to improve relations  including extremely advantageous bilateral direct trade and investment, plus air and sea links  growing numbers of Taiwanese, especially youths, reportedly fear that Taiwans autonomy is being eroded by increasingly close relations with China. This reality has profound implications for how Taiwans 23 million people view themselves. Until recently, the majority of Taiwanese considered themselves Chinese. The concept of Taiwanese independence was primarily supported by the Tsais party. Until recent times, the so-called Mainlanders  once led by Chiang Kai-shek  dominated Taiwan, often marginalizing native-born Taiwanese. That only changed with the waning influence of mainlanders within the political system and the impressive socio-economic advance of Taiwanese society. The dramatic victory of the ostensibly pro-sovereignty DPP party is the latest example of Taiwans transformed society. Where this new reality will take Taiwan and its people is unclear, especially given Chinas insistence that Taiwan remains part of China. Harry Sterling, a former diplomat, is an Ottawa-based commentator. 