Saturday was a nice (but cold) day. My niece just had her first communion.. I was half an hour late for the service (I missed most of the boring parts due to traffic) and I had to leave after 15  20 minutes because the chapel was too hot for me to breathe. Husband happily took my current situation as an excuse to go outside with me too because he was falling asleep from the heat. Im sure it was a lovely service while the chapel was filled with parents and kids (who brings babies or toddlers to an event like this), forced to sit through this (willingly I guess) for an entire hour but, my husband and I arent made for church services. He is Buddhist and Im really not much of a believer.. The only reason we went is mainly because it was my niece and she was just too adorable. Im going to get hell on my roof when my mother finds out I may not baptise my child.. I want them to choose their own path on their own terms and not shove it down their throat first thing after birth.. Selfish? Perhaps. I just find it a bit hypocrite to baptise my child when both my husband and I dont believe in the Catholic church JUST to please my mother. Where will the baby go to if it dies?  Well, where will my husband go to when HE dies? Ever thought about that? Hes not baptised. Hed never even entered a church before he met me. Now if only I could get him to stop using Jesus Christ as a swear word.. I may not be a believer but I did grow up with the evil eye from my mother when I used certain terms involving Gods name as a swear word.. So yes. Saturday was a nice (but cold) day. Too cold and too long for me as I was feeling exhausted before dinner even started. Dinner was tasty, the weather could have been better but alas. You take the weather you get. Ice-cream was also tasty but, apparently.. When you eat too much of diabetic ice-cream it tends to work like a laxative. A very painful laxative. Please remind me to never eat more than half a cup of diabetic ice-cream ever again. I barely slept that night and the night after that I was too tired to catch any sleep. Sunday my husband started feeling sick but not bad enough to complain much. Just a sore back and feeling really tired. He went to bed early and woke early as well. He had the same crappy sleep from Saturday to Sunday because yours truly was feeling like a balloon filled with too much gas, ready to explode any second. His day, too, was terribly long and exhausting. We both even took a nap. Monday was a bit better for me, it was also a holiday. But, my darling husband also had a little fever outbreak.. Thanks to Saturdays weather and the possible lack of sleep most likely. Im hoping its not the stomach flu because, if it is, Im sleeping at his parents. Nothing worse than having to sit on the toilet clinging onto a bucket just in case. Especially not now. Not for me. So, now hes at work I think. I dont know if he decided to go home or not. Hes not replying to my texts so Ill have to wait for an answer.. Either hes busy with work, home in bed or he passed out in a ditch. On a much happier note. I feel kicks. And Im not hallucinating or letting myself believe they are kicks because I put my hand on my lower belly and felt an inconsistent series of kicks/punches and it wasnt my gut rumbling. I know what a rumbling gut feels like and it does NOT feel like popping popcorn. A rumbling gut feels more like an earthquake about to let go a huge cloud of smoke and ash. Now I wonder what I was going to post originally so thats why my title doesnt match my post! /care 