Firstly, Happy Mothers Day to all the moms out there; I hope that you enjoyed a great day with your families. Shenanigan is huge overstatement. I came down with a sickness, following Miss Willows recent bout of strep throat. This is not unusual. I usually get whatever she gets and vice versa. I am also usually able to power through it. This time was different. I was feeling completely run down after the long weekend and tending to Willows fever. A couple of nights in a row of bad sleep had left me tired and my immune system vulnerable. On Tuesday I started feeling fluish. On Wednesday my voice had given out and I was feeling awful. I woke up on Thursday feeling very rough. I had a headache, sore throat, achy body and was feeling weirdly dizzy, light headed and nauseous when on my feet. I decided it was best for everyone if I went to the doctor. So I called in sick at work and went to see my physician. After examining me she diagnosed me with a bacterial throat infection and a viral inner ear infection which was giving me vertigo. I was booked off work for the rest of the week and sent home to sleep. I managed to survive Thursday well enough, but Friday was a nightmare! If I sat up the dizziness and nausea was so bad I was running for the bathroom in seconds. On Thursday the vertigo symptoms calmed down if I was lying down, but on Friday there was no relief. I felt like I was drunk and sea sick at the same time. My bed kept tossing, the room kept spinning. I never want to feel that way again! I havent been so sick that I have had to spend four full days in bed for a long time! A was an absolute saint and took on all the parental duties and most of the household duties. The rest we just let slide. Poor Willow was confused as to why I wasnt my normal self, but she bonded really well with her dad. To such an extent that she has become very clingy with A and doesnt like him being out of her sight for too long. Im not feeling 100% myself yet, but I am grateful to be out of bed and grateful that the dizziness is pretty much almost gone. Dont get vertigo. Trust me its horrible. 