A massive fire in White Rock recently left over 100 people homeless. The shortage of water during the fire has led some to propose the city amalgamate with neighbouring Surrey as a solution to the citys water capacity woes. The debate is timely, given the province committed to having a plan by late June on amalgamation and service integration across the province. Amalgamation is not the right answer. Instead, White Rock and other B.C. cities should look to inter-municipal cooperative arrangements and service sharing. The debate over the future of White Rock is a classic example of an amalgamation tussle. At the time of the 2011 census, Surrey had a population of 468,000 and was growing by about 800 residents amonth. By comparison, White Rock was home to just under 20,000 residents. Amalgamation proponents point to Surreys size as a benefit. White Rock, they argue, is simply too small. The small size ultimately diminishes the quality of services available to residents. In fact, Surreys size is a problem. First, any discussion of an amalgamation is a misnomer. This would be an annexation  less of a merger and more of a takeover. There will not be a two cities become one mentality. White Rock will become just aneighbourhood ofSurrey and any notion that White Rock residents could enter Surrey on their own terms should be abandoned. Second, there is no guarantee any service would be delivered more efficiently or of higher quality within a larger unit of government. Nor is there any evidence taxes would decrease. If size mattered in these ways, large cities would have the best services at the lowest cost, while small rural municipalities would be mired in inefficiency and drowning in taxes. We know this is not the case. Finally, if White Rock residents had concerns about the quality of their services or the rates of their taxes within Surrey, they would have limited influence to do anything about it. Those in White Rock would be the vast minority within Surrey and would effectively lose the ability to directly control their own community. The problems that White Rock would face with an amalgamation would be true of many amalgamations. That is why the provincial government should be cautious about promoting amalgamation provincewide. In fact, we often find that smaller units of government are best placed to deliver local services efficiently. Research has shown taxes often increase after consolidation. Simply put, expect the worst-case scenario. Study after study has shown amalgamation and annexation do not result in lower taxes or servicing costs. Instead, service and staffing costs increase as new, larger governments take on more complex functions. Rather than sacrificing its autonomy, small cities like White Rock should consider an arrangement that would give them greater access to services that are best provided region-wide. For example, it has recently come to light that White Rock officials have known for years that the local water system had a limited capacity. Joining Metro Vancouvers water supply system could reverse this situation. Even with the cost associated with joining Metros system and the funds already spent expanding the current reservoirs, it would ensure capacity well into the future and allow the city to expand. Water is just one example. Services such as transportation, policing and planning are often best delivered on a regional basis. Municipalities do not need to amalgamate or be annexed to enjoy the benefits of scale. Inter-municipal contracts can ensure service continuity throughout a region. The first step merely involves discussing the various options with neighbouring communities. The recent fire in White Rock was a tragedy. What it is not, however, is a reason to amalgamate. There are easier solutions. Simply put, address the problem at hand, as opposed to introducing new problems to the mix through amalgamation. Greater inter-municipal cooperation and contracting is one way that small cities like White Rock can address specific policy challenges without sacrificing the communitys autonomy. Zachary Spicer is an assistant professor in the department of political science at Brock University in St. Catharines, Ont. He is currently writing a report on the merits of inter-municipal cooperation for the C.D. Howe Institute. 