Five years ago Thursday, B.C. chiefs voted to take control of federally delivered First Nations health programs and services for their peoples. The historic vote led to the most significant change for federal health services since the 1986 Indian Health Transfer Policy. This vote set in motion a new era of health partnership with both B.C. and Canada, including creation of a First Nations Health Authority (FNHA). The wholesale transfer of federal health services to the FNHA in October 2013 was viewed by many as a bold move, certainly one not seen before in Canada. The FNHA is overseen by and directly accountable to First Nations in B.C. through a decision-making structure that is by First Nations, for First Nations. A 2011 legal agreement between Canada, B.C. and the FNHA describes Canadas new relationship as governance partner and funder and B.C. as a health service partner and funder. The agreement also describes the reciprocal obligations between Canada, B.C. and the FNHA. Reciprocal accountability is a hallmark of the new relationship. It means partners are accountable to one another for results  in health outcomes, service delivery, and dollars and cents. Since the vote in 2011 and transfer of services in 2013, its clear that integration among service providers within B.C.s health landscape is having significant impact for better health services. By 2012 five regional Partnership Accords were in place between regional health authorities and First Nations communities within health authority administrative boundaries. These Accords outline priorities and reciprocal accountabilities of First Nations and local health authorities to improve First Nations health and wellbeing. In practice, the Accords have led to additional primary care and support services available to First Nations where they live. New investments include commitments of ongoing sustainable funding of $15 million which will include 87 FTEs serving First Nations through a diverse suite of primary care, and mental health and wellness integration projects. Day-to-day operations for the FNHA include public health, primary care through rural nursing services, environmental health, telehealth, and facilitating alignment of B.C.s health system together with First Nations and Aboriginal peoples. Part of FNHAs mandate is to transform the programs and services inherited in 2013. This transformation will take many years but strong headway is being made, driven by a philosophy of health through a First Nations concept of wellness. Our agenda follows health issues that matter most to First Nations and their experiences with health care they receive. Social disadvantage and intergenerational impacts of colonization means poor health outcomes and crisis are too familiar in our Nations. The FNHA is focused on transforming relationships including being more responsive in crisis situations. Concrete steps have included rapid resourcing, reducing response time, and reduced bureaucracy. This means boots on-the-ground and resources in-the-bank within the first 48 hours. Mental health supports and services through both traditional and western interventions give flexibility to communities to design their response in a meaningful way. We know we cannot do this work alone. Commitment from health service and governance partners to achieve our vision is central. In July 2015, CEOs from each health authority in B.C. signed a declaration of commitment to cultural safety and humility for First Nations and Aboriginal peoples. This declaration sets the stage for transformative work in the coming years on-the-ground for health care services. Culturally respectful and safe care will benefit not only First Nations and Aboriginal peoples, but all British Columbians. The organizations tagline is Health through wellness. We recognize that good health is an outcome of being and living well. Our work focuses on improving the quality of health care for First Nations through the integration of Indigenous ways of being and knowing including approaches to leadership, kinship and traditional wellness. On this five-year anniversary of the vote we remain honoured to have been given this mandate by First Nations leadership in B.C. and are excited to champion this transformative work. Lydia Hwitsumis chair and Joe Gallagher is CEOof theFirst Nations Health Authority. 