I used to be the person going to a doc everytime I got sick, taking antibiotics like smarties and getting sick a few times a year! It took me a few years to get where I am today, with using only himalayan salts to heal my infection and only R14 spent altogether. As a healer, when I get sick the very first thing I do is NOT go to a doctor to get antibiotics or any other medicine that wont heal my problem but rather aid in minimising the symptoms unless its something I know I cant treat myself. I check what my symptoms are through feeling and knowing my body well which has taken years to work out. Last week I caught an ENT infection which I treated myself with himalayan salts, vitamin C and loads of rest. Here are my remedies for a sore throat, blocked nose and sore ears: 1/2 tsp himalayan salt in a bit of boiled water, allow to cool down, sniff water in each nostril a few times till you feel the water going down the back of your throat. Why is this so good for you? Himalayan salts are a powerful antihistamine, detoxify the body by balancing ph levels and restore electrolytes and minerals that are lost when our immunity drops and infections are able to creep in. When we get sick, we need vitamin C. Lots of it! I prefer juicing all sorts of citrus fruits, ginger and adding himalayan salt into the juice to get a full dose of all natural nutrients. You can also take vitamin C supplements in its purest form possible WITH food (preferably something sweet like a juice to allow for proper absorbtion). And then rest, sleep sleep sleep! No gym, no heavy activities, no stressful situations. This is your time to relax and rest, giving your body what it needs and  deserves. Its important to realise that the reason we usually get sick is because of emotional triggers. When we suffer an emotional trauma, this immediately drops our immunity which allows for infection to easily creep in. When the body is a healthy one, the infection wont cause too much trouble, but when the body is unhealthy and usually depends on allopathic medicines, the body will become very weak and might need allopathic medicine as this is all its relied on until now. Wheening the body off of allopathic treatments TAKES TIME and sometimes even a few years and a few infections / illnesses later. This is a process and depending on the bodys health through nutrition and environment, it might take longer to come off of allopathic treatments so give yourself this time and know your health professional well so that they can help heal you in a safe way. The last thing to remember when trying to heal naturally is patience and consistency. It took over a week for me to get fully better but I continued with these rituals every single day! Like you would with other treatments  