You is kind. You is smart. You is important. [Kathryn Stockett, The Help]  1. Only the Flu is the Flu I knew this one already, but this flu (lets call it The Flu of April 2016), reinforced this truth. Ever since I had The Flu 16 years ago, I have been careful not to call ANYTHING else the Flu. Colds, yes. Viruses, oh yes. Tummy bugs, flu-like symptoms, feeling s**t yes, yes, yes. But never The Flu. When I had the flu 16 years ago I remember my mum mopping down my 20-year-old brow in the middle of the night, and it occurring to me that perhaps I was dying. I remember my friends had it too and we were supposed to be going to a Travis concert (!). Our parents stretched landline cords to hold phones to our ears while we assured each other that we would definitely be better in a few days and definitely be going. We werent better and we didnt go. My dad put an advert in the Belfast Telegraph and somebody bought the tickets via a rendezvous at Lisburn Leisure Centre, because that is what you did 16 years ago. Previously, there was the Beijing Flu of 93, the highlight of which was when my brother puked while on the phone to his girlfriend. The Flu of April 2016 reminded me that, other than the Travis Flu and the Beijing Flu, I had neverreallybeen sick in my life. The Flu becomes your new standard of illness. Your soldier on button gets stuck and even though its your husbands Sunday morning lie-in, he has to get up because you genuinely, honestly cant get out of bed. 2. Never be jealous of a sick person In the weeks preceding The Flu of April 2016 I heard people mention that a husband, or wife or so-and-so had a terrible dose andspent the day in bed. I thought that sounded amazing. A whole day in bed! An excuse to opt out of life with small children for a day. But then I got the flu and learnt 3. It is possible to NOT enjoy a day in bed When I am tired, but well, I dont really believe this, but its true. I did not enjoy bed or the sofa. I did not enjoy back-to-back Nashville or a Scandinavian crime marathon or even 5 Star babies. I could not read a book. My husband went around saying You know Sharons sick when she doesnt even want a cup of tea  so, really, a day in bed without tea or a book whats the point? 4. Recognise your Shame gremlins This is a serious one! I have been reading a lot of Bren Brown recently and learning about the ways in which shame is present in the most mundane and visible aspects of our lives. To identify your own shame-triggers she suggests writing out how you want to be perceived, and how you dont want to be perceived. I realised from doing this that being sick (or eventired) is a shame-trigger for me, particularly as a mum. It is desperately important to me to be seen as someone who will soldier on. So when I got the flu, and I couldnt, my shame gremlins (asBren would call them) were quick to make me feel panicked and embarrassed about how much help I was needing from my husband and parents. But the critical awarenessBren teaches meant I could recognise these shame gremlins for what they are, and be kind to myself. One of my friends included those lovely words from The Help in a text to me while I was sick and I needed the reminder: rest up, you is important. In contrast, if you have a friend (or great-Aunt or nosey neighbour) who practices a shaming brand of sympathy: dont communicate with them when you have the flu, or ask your husband what they said. You will not be better tomorrow and your husband is going to do the school run, even though theirsneverdid. 5. You DO Something! Finally, the best thing I learnt from having the flu recently is thatI do something!I had been so focused on both the embarrassment and the logistics of getting people to do the things I normally do, that I missed the fact that maybe Im a *little bit* important to some people! I am on a Career Break this year and one of the benefits of being a Stay-At-Home-Mum is that there is no hassle when your kids are sick. Early morning puking? No problem, no panic about work and child care. But my husband and I were both panicked on the Sunday night of the Flu of April 2016 when we realised I was the one sick. One of the damaging sides of being aSAHMis that you can struggle to see what you have to show for your day. You discount the importance of the school run and making dinner and only notice the things you arent getting done. What I learnt, from having the flu, is that those things  the school run, making dinner  seemed much bigger and more important when I had to ask someone else to do them. My 3-year-olds day seemed likesomething,when it depended on someone else.  Did anyone else get the Flu of April 2016? Or the cold or a mysterious virus? Or do you remember the Beijing Flu?! However youre feeling, remember that we can feel shame in the most mundane circumstances, and thatyou is important.  