Today is a good day. Today I turn 20. As a slipped into sleep last night I thought about the 20 wonderful years of life Ive been so lucky to enjoy, and I slept better than I had in weeks. The knowledge that Id be waking up to a few presents didnt hurt either! My papa kindly infused some vodka with raspberries for me and I sipped it out of a vintage shot glass that hed chosen too. My mama and sister also sent me up some gorgeous thing  a pair of silver pineapple studs, a Judy Garland film, a photo block, and even a delicate ombre espresso cup. I felt like a queen! The rest of my day Im very lucky to be spending with my Burlesque society as it is our annual showcase! That means dancing all day in heels and pretty lingerie, humming show tunes, and at the end of it of course a killer after party! I did of of course have reservations about my first birthday away from home, and admittedly when frozen came on my morning disney playlist I waslittle sad, as I reminisced about that fateful holiday last summer (which I promise to explainat the end), but the prospect of being around so many friends who love me and celebrating on stage doing what I love is too much to handle! Now because I am such a lucky person I want to say some thank yous to the universe, friends and family. Thank you papa for always making me laugh, and always having my back. Thank you mama for crying with me when I get teary, and loving me no matter what. Thank you Ella for being the best friend a girl could wish for, and the kindest sister the world has ever seen. Thank you to all my family for beingthe best, craziest, sweetest lot of people to grow up with. Thank you to all my friends for loving me and drinking with me and for accepting me at my worst as well as my best. Thank you universe, for my health, wealth, sunshine, coffee, future, hopes and dreams. I am luckier than many but eternally grateful. Finally, thank you toeveryone Im so lucky to have met and spent time with. To finish, the aforementioned story. My sister and I travelled to Rotterdam, our third of four cities being visited on our inter railing trip. Ella had kindly taken good care of me when I suddenly came down with the worst flu Id ever encountered. Sweating through bedsheets every night, and barely able to eat, I finally began to recover, only for Ella herself to catch the damn thing! So we arrived in Rotterdam, and she went for a nap while I sought out some food shopping. I got supplies(tea\chocolate\bread) and we snuggled up in our huge double bed and watched frozen on Netflix. Frozen has always been our film, we watch it whenever were feeling crampy (thanks, mother nature) or hungover (thanks, wine) and the song do you wanna build a snowman instantly takes me back to that moment. Sophie 