Last Monday I woke up early and immediately felt the unmistakable fuzzy brain, cracked lips and aching throat that would soon develop into the first cold Id had in almost a year. Since switching to a plant-based lifestyle I have maintained a nice immunity to most illness and kept a balance on the regular peaks and troughs of every day energy levels. However, stress, lack of sleep and exposure to a bug plaguing the office broke through my carefully constructed wall of health and without warning, I was sick. When we were younger, developing a cold or flu was like winning gold. We got a day or two off school; our parents would dote over us, rub our back until we fell asleep and help us set up a fort on the couch while we waited out our cold with Saturday Disney reruns and hot soup. Unfortunately, part of growing up means dealing with illness on your own; thats why, when I forced myself out of bed and into the gym in an attempt to ignore my symptoms that morning, only to last twenty minutes on the treadmill before craving the comfort of pillows and tea, I decided I needed a plan. I wasnt going to succumb to the illness or wallow in self-pity, and I definitely couldnt afford to let it deter me from going about my busy week. Instead, what followed was a rigorous commitment to health, daily trips to my local Pressed Juices store and a whole lot of tea. Getting on top of a cold or flu in the initial 24-hours is essential to a speedy recovery. So at the first sign of a sneeze or sniffle, follow this guide: 7am Jump in the shower. Make it hot. Steamy showers are a great way to break up mucus and relieve stuffiness. A hot shower will also work as a relaxant and give you time to mentally prepare for the day ahead. 8am Stock up on the right supplies. Youre going to need tissues, throat lozenges and zinc supplements. Zinc is an important natural supplement and has been found to shorten the duration of a cold by 42%, according to research by the University of Helsinki. 10am Get your vitamin boost. Pressed Juices has a whole range of juices, smoothies and elixirs specifically designed to help you feel better. And the best part? Each store has nutritionally qualified staff to ensure you choose the right combination. Each morning throughout the duration of my cold, I downed an Immunity shot elixir and Greens 4 juice.The Immunity shot and Greens 4 is the perfect duo for the colder months and to help those winter blues, says Food Science Nutritionist, Rachel Lusi. Just as its name promises, the spicy elixir contains a potent dose of Vitamin C and anti-inflammatory properties: including orange, lemon, Kakadu plum, ginger, turmeric and black pepper; while the Greens 4 is jam-packed full of everything green: spinach, celery, lettuce, cucumber, kale, parsley and lemon, to increase energy and feed your body the vitamins it needs to regain strength.  Noon Tea-time. While you should be sipping on warm liquids throughout the day, lunchtime is a great reminder to grab a steaming cup of green or peppermint tea.Nurse, Donna Cardillo says green tea is known to have many properties to keep you at peak health and peppermint tea is laced with nutrients that help the body fight off illness.If you do come down with cold or flu symptoms (or feel them coming on), consider 3-4 cups of green tea per day to rid your body of nasty bugs and give your defences an extra jolt, she says.For an extra boost of Vitamin C, squeeze some fresh lemon into your tea. 3pm Refill your water bottle. Hydration is crucial when your body is fighting off an illness, as a fever can put you at risk of dehydration. Drinking plenty of water can also help to loosen mucus and relieve any throat itchiness and aching. 5pm While lack of energy may make you want to stay in bed, try to find the motivation to head outside and do some light exercise. Getting your blood circulating with a slow walk, basic stretching or yoga can help lift your energy levels, improve your symptoms and make you feel a whole lot better. Just be sure to listen to your body and not over do it. 9pm Tuck yourself into bed with a hot water bottle and get some rest. Try for a minimum eight hours of sleep while ill to give your body the time it needs to recover. If youre sniffly or suffering from a blocked nose, rub some eucalyptus oil onto your dcolletage and prop your head up on an extra pillow to help relieve sinus pressure. 7am Wake up, and repeat until you feel as good as new.Hopefully by supercharging the first 24 hours you can get on top of your illness, manage the signs and symptoms and be better in no time. Read more: http://blog.theupsidesport.com/24-hours-of-cold-combat/#ixzz48QPoptql 