British Columbias geology is rich in diverse mineral deposits in every corner of the province. B.C. is Canadas largest producer of copper, largest exporter of steelmaking coal and only producer of molybdenum. These products play a critical role in contributing to societys transition to a low-carbon economy  from the copper used in electric cars to the steelmaking coal required to build public transit infrastructure as well as wind turbines and solar panels. The mining industry in B.C. is currently facing a difficult time. Commodity prices have been in decline for several years, notably B.C.s principal commodities; steelmaking coal and copper. Operators have been adapting accordingly by reducing costs and focusing on productivity. Despite best efforts over the past 18 months, several operating mines have had to make the incredibly difficult decision to temporarily cease operations, which has affected more than 20 per cent of the industrys total direct workforce, as well as supplier jobs, families and economic activity in communities across the province. While some operating mines have suspended activity until prices recover, many projects continue to advance. Examples include Pretiums Brucejack Project and JDS Silvers Silvertip Project, which are both in construction and moving to production. Mining continues to be an important part of the Vancouver economy, employing thousands of people in mining company head offices as well as suppliers to the industry, including everything from construction and engineering firms to lawyers, accountants and consultants. Some of the largest Canadian and international mining companies are headquartered or have significant presence in Vancouver including hundreds of exploration and mining companies. In addition to the direct benefit to the economy of Metro Vancouver, mining products are also imperative to build the infrastructure needed for a sustainable region. The continued progress of these projects across the province proves the resilience of B.C.s mining industry, in good times and challenging ones. Miners are working closely with each other and other stakeholders to not only weather the current storm, but also plan for the future. An example is the five-year temporary electricity deferral program for B.C. mines, which was announced by the B.C. government earlier this year, after consultation with industry. The deferral, plus the applicable commercial interest rate, allows qualifying mines to defer up to 75 per cent of their electricity costs for two years, recognizing that the mining industry is facing difficult times. This is just one example of a collaborative effort that is helping the industry remain in operation, while protecting jobs in the communities where we operate. There are many other collaborations in areas such as skills and training, corporate social responsibility, environmental protection, and economic development. It is essential that B.C. remains a globally competitive place to invest, drawing from progress in the above-mentioned areas. That requires both consistent and proactive policies that will help B.C. stand out among investors seeking a resource-rich jurisdiction that is both safe and politically stable. B.C. has all of these qualities, not to mention world-class infrastructure, a productive port system, a highly skilled workforce and globally-ranked high quality of life. As Canada continues to move toward a low-carbon economy, B.C.s mining industry will continue to play a key role in the transition to a more sustainable world. The onus is on the industry, and all of its various stakeholders  including governments and communities  to ensure B.C. continues to be an attractive jurisdiction for mining. This is critical to ensuring a vibrant and promising future for all British Columbians. Karina Briois president and CEO of the Mining Association of British Columbia. 