As an activist for many years on behalf of Chinatown seniors and cultural issues, I believe the most recent development proposal for 105 Keefer Street, across from the Chinese Cultural Centre and Dr. Sun Yat-sen Chinese Garden, presents a positive balance of social and economic as well as cultural benefits for this community. Several years ago, many of us in Chinatown took part in a very extensive planning process to revitalize the community and reverse a drain of economic and cultural health. The result was a decision to encourage larger redevelopments in key locations like 105 Keefer as long as they demonstrated cultural sensitivity to the neighbourhood and delivered significant social benefits. These policies were officially adopted by the City as the Rezoning Policy for Higher Buildings in Chinatown South (2011) and the Chinatown Neighbourhood Plan and Economic Strategy (2012). Recently, several buildings have been completed according to these policies, and initial reports from the traditional local shopkeepers and the Chinatown Merchants Association are that the new residents and retail stores have already begun to breathe fresh life into the Chinatown economy. The 105 Keefer project will replace a vacant lot that was formerly a gas station  not a heritage building. This project will not displace jobs, homes, or businesses. Furthermore, this project will not only house new residents with disposable income to spend in the neighbourhood, it will also provide 25 affordable units for low to moderate income seniors to be owned by BC Housing for Chinatown seniors. Today I know many longtime Chinatown residents are being forced to look for seniors housing outside their familiar neighbourhood or have to wait in long lines if they choose to continue to stay in Chinatown. To complete the picture, the most recent plan now includes ground level space that will contain a Chinatown seniors culture and recreation centre. This is something that Chinatown seniors and cultural organizations like ours have been seeking for many years. And, this is a service that benefits all Chinatown seniors, not just the residents of the 25 affordable apartments in the building who will have direct, interior access to this proposed seniors centre. Today, our resident seniors and small, not-for-profit Chinese senior services and cultural societies are leaving Chinatown because of a lack of inclusive, designated seniors spaces. Our 12+ organizations have more than 1,000 members who will appreciate this facility in their backyard The price we pay as a community for this balanced package of economic and social benefits is a 30-foot increase in the height of the proposed building, from 90 to 120 feet. The default alternative for the developer, as some critics and concerned neighbours overlook or misunderstand, is not a small low-rise heritage building but a 90-foot market condo building that is already permitted under the current bylaws and would include no social amenity or non-market housing whatsoever. I, along with my colleagues on the steering committee of our 12+ organization coalition, firmly believe this revised plan is good for Chinatown and better than the alternative. In fact, we believe the proposed well-balanced program mix at this central location will be the magnet to draw Chinese Canadian culture back to Chinatown. Eric Szeto is the President and founder of the Vancouver Seniors Singing Club Association, as well as an advocate and steering committee member of the Chinatown Seniors Cultural & Recreational Coalition, representing 12+ seniors-focused arts, culture and recreational organizations. 