When i was sitting at home, and wondering what to do, i remembered that i hadnt updated my blog page for already a week and i decided to write another reflection on a interesting TED related to decease fighting. After a long topic-research, i found an interesting TED talker named, Seth Berkley and looked at his TED talk called The troubling reason why vaccines are made too late  if theyre made at all. We all experienced having fever and muscle pain, usually even blood coming from our noses but other than these, we havent gone any far but usually in other countries such as Africa, children go far and they struggle withvomiting and diarrhea,then bleeding from the mouth and gums. Death follows in the form of organ failure from low blood pressure. The main thing that causes these human failures are viruses. No, not Ebola, but a mosquito-born decease which does not have any vaccines and an effective therapy, that is why more than 22,000 people die each year of it.That is actually twice the number of people that have been killed by Ebolain the nearly four decades that weve known about it. There is something about these, that fascinates us more than the decease. I guess, that we are more scared of the fact that there isnt any vaccine or an effective therapy available.Ebola is not as much transmissible as viruses such as measles or flu, but we fear it because of the fact that it kills people and we cant treat it. But, if we think more deeply about it and do some research we will see that Ebola was first appeared in 1976. We had known what it could do and we had already some vaccines, but why do they go to clinical trials now?Ebola was relatively ignored until September 11 and the anthrax attacks, when all of a sudden, people perceived Ebola as, potentially, a bioterrorism weapon. The people most at risk for these diseases are also the ones least able to pay for vaccines. This leaves little in the way of market incentives for manufacturers to develop vaccines, unless there are large numbers of people who are at risk in wealthy countries. Its simply too commercially risky. We have to stop waiting until we see evidence of a disease becoming a global threat before we consider it as one. So, for Ebola, the fear of an infectious disease, followed by a few cases transported to wealthy countries, led the global community to come together, and with the work of dedicated vaccine companies, we now have two Ebola vaccines in efficacy trials in the Ebola countries. You cant take a knife on a plane anymore, but you can get on carrying a virus.  David Quammen   