Flu shots will be offered later than usual this year because of the slow start to the influenza season. Usually, we stop offering the flu vaccine at the end of March, but this year it will continue to be offered until the end of April, said Dr. Saqib Shahab, the provinces chief medical health officer.We still expect to see some ongoing transmission for at least the next one or two weeks before we see it finally taper away. This was to be expected. The free flu vaccine is available through public health clinics across the province and at some pharmacies. However, there are no more drop-in flu clinics, so residents must make an appointment for a flu shot. Since Sept. 1, there have been 13 flu-related deaths, 47 intensive care unit (ICU) admissions and 32 outbreaks in long-term health-care facilities due to the H1N1 strain of influenza circulating in Saskatchewan. Last year, when the H3N2 influenza strain was making the rounds, there were 26 ICU admissions and nine reported deaths in the province. The number of ICU admissions and flu-related deaths in Saskatchewan this year was similar to 2013-14, when H1N1 was the circulating flu strain.That year, there were 56 ICU admissions and 15 deaths in the province. Typically, seniors make up a large number of flu-related hospitalizations. But when H1N1 is the predominant strain, theres also a large proportion ofworking-age adults, primarily in the 45- to 64-year range, who also require hospitalization, Shahab said. As far as we can gather, these individuals have underlying risk factors like diabetes or heart or lung disease or in some cases, significant obesity and have not been immunized, he said. It underscores two things: the importance of getting the flu vaccine  and this year the flu vaccine was much more effective than last year  and also being aware of your health risks. Between March 27 and April 2, 98 new lab-confirmed influenza cases were reported in the province for a total of 2,741 since Sept. 1. The numbers are an underestimate. Not all people seek medical care and are tested for influenza, and not all those who died with influenza-like illness were tested. Everyone should get the flu vaccine, but its particularly important for the three groups who are most likely to get really ill with influenza: seniors, working-age adults with underlying risk factors and children, six months to five years. Although the number of flu cases is decreasing, influenza is still circulating in Saskatchewan and thereare a lot of respiratory viruses going around. Shahab urges people who are sick to stay at home, cover your mouth with your sleeve when coughing and wash your hands frequently to prevent the spread of germs. pcowan@postmedia.com 