Ivory, Indigo and Influenza The aim in this image was to show and contrast the two colours ivory and indigo. I did so by using simple plain layers of each colour and then cutting holes in each to allow the other to shine through. This was laid over separate green and red layers that combined to give some contrasting colour. The overall rough texture is a layer of plaster in a pale yellow colour. The X-ray of a person with influenza pneumonia is laid on top in three separate layers was used to provide depth to the image by giving a reference point. Influenza kills many people every year, taking mostly the old and very young. Prevention is so important and the disease is imminently preventable with vaccination! Yet programs for vaccination take up less than 30% of the population, and presumably for political reasons  cost mainly  vaccination programs concentrate mainly on health workers and elderly. The two pillars of modern medical ethics are based on the concepts of helping and doing no harm otherwise therapeutics and prevention. Xenophon in 400 BC said  As there are persons who mend torn garments, so there are physicians who heal the sick; but your duty is far nobler, and one befitting of a just person, namely to keep people in health. (Cryopaedia 400 BC.) But, although prevention is so very important, it is often seen in the medical profession as less important than treating sick people. Its like Pandoras box; we fail to keep a lid on the problem with preventative measures preferring to treat it once the disease is out there, the Ebola crisis in West Africa was a perfect example. There is a fair amount of misinformation regarding vaccination I thought vaccinations against flu dont work, and quite spurious reasons  I dont like injections. (There is even a body of misrepresentation by the anti-vaccination faction.) But prevention with annual vaccination is important; influenza is unpredictable. The virus constantly changes. Immunity from vaccination declines over time. An annual flu vaccination is the first and best way to protect against influenza.  