Starting this Monday, expect to see an increase in two-wheel traffic sharing the road during your daily commute. From May 30 to June 5, B.C. will be holding its annual Bike To Work Week  a province-wide initiative aimed at promoting commuting by bicycle. The initiative has grown tremendously since its start 21 years ago in Greater Victoria. According to Bike To Work B.C., in 2015, more than 34,000 participants cycledto work as part of the annual event, a 73-per-cent increase over the past three years. Bike To Work Week has been successful because it tapped into  or helped spark  a growing trend among local riders who have discovered the health, environmental and economic benefits of cycling. Last year, Bike To Work Week participants burned 28.6 million calories, kept more than 200,000 kilograms of CO2 from entering the atmosphere, and saved $61,700 in fuel costs. In addition, the annual biking initiative aligns with our regions lifestyle, enabling residents to stay active, protect the environment, enhance the livability of our city-scape, and detach from the frenetic pace of life  offering an escape from the everyday. When we started designing and manufacturing Brodie Bikes here more than 30 years ago, there was a small community of diehard enthusiasts who shared our love of bikes and passion for riding. While our bikes are still tailored to the demands and interests of the most avid cyclists, our community has grown to include casual riders. Local biking culture has also thrived because of our unique location. Our citys temperate climate, bike-friendly infrastructure, and breathtaking environment has helped turn Vancouver into one of the most bike-friendly jurisdictions in North America. According to a recent survey, a higher proportion ofpeople bike to work in Vancouver than any other major city in North America. The riding community, and its supporting industry, have also benefited from our location in a port city, which has been critical to our supply chain. More than 25,000 metric tonnes of bicycles and bike-related equipment pass through the port annually, suggesting there is no end in sight to our appetite for two-wheeled transportation. While Brodie Bikes encourages everyone to participate in Bike To Work Week, we recognize cyclists will need to share the road with motorists. Last year, nearly 11,000 bikes hit Metro Vancouver roads during this time, so here are a few tips for how cyclists and drivers can safely share the road this week: Use extra vigilance. Not all cyclists suiting up this week will be experienced. More than 7,600 new riders participated in Bike To Work Week last year. Motorists should be vigilant this week when driving around cyclists. Obey the rules of the road. While seemingly obvious, cyclists should utilize designated infrastructure and avoid drifting into vehicular traffic lanes. Cyclists and motorists should avoid rolling at stop signs. Cyclists should use hand signals. New riders should become familiar with and experienced cyclists should use standard hand signals when switching lanes or turning. Motorists should be aware of the additional volume of cyclists this week and check bike routes before switching lanes or opening car doors. Use the right gear. Helmets are essential, bike mirrors are a big help, and cyclists should never wear earbuds or headphones while riding. Participants can register for Bike To Work Week at Bike Hub, biking route maps can be found via the City of Vancouver, and a theft prevention bike registry, which is used by the VPD/RCMP, is available through Project 529. Bike To Work Week is a great way to stay active, enjoy the beauty of our city, save money, and preserve the environment. We look forward to seeing many of you on the roads this week, and encourage cyclists to stop by Celebration Stations throughout the city, including at Union and Main, where Brodie Bikes will be helping support cyclists and promoting this great initiative! Roger Yip is presidentof Brodie Bikes. 