Wow, I didnt realize it had been so long since Id written. The last thing I really remember is going to visit my sister-in-law at the end of April. On the way back we decided to take in a museum that was on our route (yes, we are THAT nerdy family), and the next thing I know, Ive got a 4 year old puking into my lap at 2 a.m. after we got home. Got her puking calmed down and put her back to bed, then OH NO I started puking about 12 hours later. And then for 7 days straight. Yes, blah, hospital, blah, should I have gone, probably yes, but I hate hospitals and I was in and out of the hospital enough when I was pregnant to last a lifetime. Mr. Toni Briggs had the bug for about a day and a half and never puked, not ONCE, the bastard. So, we are all out of commission for at least a week, but the next week I sent The Beest to preschool for ONE DAY and the next morning she woke up with a 105.5 degree fever. Now, this isnt my first rodeo with her and fevers. She tends to run record-breaking temps when shes got respiratory infections (her highest ever was 108.8 last year. Yup, you read that right. So I resisted panicking and gave her Tylenol and Motrin and waited about a half an hour and her fever was already down to 103.5. And you could tell she already felt better because she was demanding eatmo. Then, of course, less than 24 hours later, I started running a fever. I dont normally run fevers, so my 103.0 may not have been as impressive as her 105.5, but my body didnt seems to care. Chills, shakes, sweats, still nauseous from the previous weeks stomach bug, snots, etc. Finally I had Bill take us to the walk in clinic thats run by our regular doctor last Sunday. Virus, He said. Seven to fourteen days, he said. I had to strongly stomp down on the urge to collapse into hysterical laughter. ANOTHER WEEK OF THIS SHIT?!?!? Fuck that noise! By this time Bill had escaped the Germ House and was back to work, so it was just me and The Beest. All I can say at this point is HALLELUJAH FOR NETFLIX!!!!!  We dont let The Beestwatch hardly any TV and this came in tremendously handy during the weeks we were both sick, and then the week that she started to feel better but I was still sick. One word for you: Octonauts. I now hear that theme song in my sleep. But they are short, preschooler friendly episodes and she got to learn a lot about the ocean, so my mommy guilt was assuaged somewhat. All I had to say was Want to watch some Octonauts? and that magic, amazing phrase had the power to make her SIT ON THE COUCH for more than 5 minutes at a time. I swear, I didnt even have enough energy to read to her and Ill usually slit my wrists before letting her watch that much boob tube, but Jesus, I dont know that Ive ever been that sick. Certainly not that sick and in charge of another human being! Then a day or so later, I realized that my flu-like illness had done what so many others had before it: turned into a whopping sinus infection, making me feel even worse. I lay half on/half off the couch and wondered how this was even possible! Luckily, since this pattern has been repeated often over my lifetime, I had a sequestered bottle of antibioticsshoved in the back of my medicine cabinet for just such an occasion. A couple days after I started taking THAT I began to feel somewhat human again. Im still very weak and the only things that appeal to my stomach are dry cereal and gatorade, but at least I am vertical. My mother-in-law offered to take The Beest for the weekend so I will get some rest and hopefully this summer will start to improve, because so far, it has sucked major ASS. And Mr. Toni Briggs and my 5-year anniversary is tomorrow! I think because we got pregnant approximately 0.00000002 seconds after the wedding and our marriage has been totally kid-centric from the start, anniversaries have just sort of passed without much recognition. But five years! Damn! Go us! 